How often do you level up your PCs? Too
often. It's ruining your campaign. You
got to stop it right now.
[Music]
The speed of leveling up in Dn D has
actually been all over the place. In the
original 1974 edition of the game, the
XP rules were a little vague and open to
interpretation. But even under the most
conservative interpretations, TSR
designers were shocked to discover that
Dn D obsessed players were leveling up
their characters to 15th, 20th, 30th, or
or even 50th level. They considered this
sort of power gaming to be completely
unacceptable. So, the XP rules were
radically overhauled in the very first
D&D supplement, reducing how much XP the
PCs were getting to just 1% of what they
were previously earning, depending on
exactly how a group had been
interpreting the original rules. This
still didn't slow everyone down, so
TSR's designers took the novel approach
of chiding and even outright insulting
people for their ridiculous characters.
This notably reached a climax when they
published a book full of gods and
goddesses. It was starting up Thor and
we think you all feel pretty silly when
you realize that your absurdly
overpowered characters can just kill a
god.
So, the players of course started
killing gods. And this back and forth
would continue for years. But there was
more to it than that. The rules of the
game were all over the place, and it was
basically impossible to play AD and D
without house ruling it, and XP was no
exception. Some DMs, for example, would
drop XP for treasure because it didn't
make sense to them. That's a topic for
another day, though. Hit the subscribe
button if you don't want to miss it. But
other DMs would use optional rules to
reward XP for non-combat achievements,
or or they wouldn't adjust XP awards
based on PC level. Another common
casualty of house rules were the
training rules which required PCs to
find a trainer of the appropriate level
before they could level up. And if the
PCs earned a lot of XP in a single
session, should it cap out or should
they be allowed to gain multiple levels
all at once? Depending on which
combination of rules a DM was using, the
speed of leveling could vary radically
from one table to the next with with
some characters burning through levels
while other players could go months or
even years between levels. And of
course, everyone was doing it wrong.
Anyone leveling up faster than you was a
reckless munchkin, but any DM with a
slower XP rate hated their players and
their campaign sucked. Dn D Thr Edition
tried to clean the slate, clear the air,
and reset expectations. The designers
had market research showing that the
average D&D campaign only lasted for one
year. So, if you wanted players to
actually experience highle play, their
XP awards needed to be paced so that
they could hit 20th level after about 30
to 50 sessions. And if you do the math,
that means the PC should obviously be
leveling up every one or two sessions.
So that's how they pace leveling in DND
third edition. And that understanding of
leveling has remained pretty consistent
through Dn D fourth edition and into
fifth edition today. The problem is that
it's wrong. I mean, it's not wrong if
your goal is to get to 20th level in
30-ish sessions. But is that your goal?
Or is your goal to have fun, highquality
gaming sessions? Now, so far we've been
talking about Dn D, but this advice
really applies to any RPG where the PC's
power up in big chunks, games like
Starfinder or Draw Steel. It won't
really be useful, of course, in systems
like Knights Black Agents or Call of
Cthulhu, where you advance a few skill
points at a time. On the other hand, I
think you'll still find it useful in
systems with incremental but meaningful
chunks like the Cipher system or or 13th
Age cuz cuz here's the deal. Every time
you hit a new level, there are three
things that are going to happen. First,
you're going to be figuring out what all
of your new abilities are and what they
do. Second, you're going to start
experimenting with all your new stuff.
What's the best load out of spells to
prepare now? Uh, now that you have
danger sense, should your position in
the marching order change? You know,
stuff like that. And this importantly
includes learning how to coordinate with
the other PCs and their new abilities,
too. Third, through experimentation,
you're going to master your new
abilities. And once that happens, there
will ideally be a period in which you
get to enjoy that mastery. These are the
moments when the game feels really
satisfying because everything is just
it's just clicking. As everyone at the
table settles into the new groove, your
speed of play will also pick up. You'll
be playing with confidence. There'll be
fewer rules lookups. Decisions will be
fast and furious. And then, of course,
at some point, you'll level up again,
and you'll have this blast of cool new
abilities that will make everything feel
fresh and exciting again. You'll be able
to solve problems and tackle challenges
that were out of your reach, and the
cycle will start over again. Here's the
trick, though. If you think about those
three phases, learning, experimenting,
mastering, how long does each one take?
I'm going to argue that for every phase,
you need at least one session. At each
step, you need to take in the lessons of
actual play, figure out how you want to
apply those lessons, and then actually
apply them in play. In practice, my
experience is that you you really want
multiple sessions per phase. The entire
idea of experimenting, for example,
pretty strongly implies that not every
experiment is going to work out.
Ideally, you'll be iterating and working
out the kinks. So, what happens when the
PCs gain a new level every single
session? Well, they get stuck in first
gear. It's just a constant deluge of new
stuff. Learning how their character
works becomes their full-time job. It's
like trying to learn how to dance while
standing under a waterfall. They never
really figure out how all this new stuff
works. They They never integrate it.
They never get on top of it. They never
even get close to enjoying the rewards
of mastery. Now, if you've never played
at a table that achieves this kind of
mastery, then then you may not even know
what you're missing out on. But if you'd
like to give your players the breathing
space to find out what they're truly
capable of, then you do have a few
options. First, obviously, you can just
slow things down. Instead of leveling up
every session, have the PCs level up
every four or five sessions instead. If
you're using some kind of milestone
leveling, you can just do this. If
you're awarding XP, it will mean
adjusting how much XP is awarded.
Personally, for example, I've been
having XP awards in DND third edition
and fifth edition for about 20 years
now, and it works pretty well for me and
my groups now. Either way, though, you
can also vary this pace. For example,
you might want to level up faster at
first level, but then slow it down as
you hit fifth level. Now, of course,
some players won't like taking long
breaks like this between one character
advancement and the next. They enjoy the
dopamine hit. They they like being
rewarded for their efforts, or they just
like tinkering with the mechanics. Now,
to help them get what they want, you can
break character advancement up into
smaller parts. Monty Cook's New Mona,
for example, has characters advance by
tier. Each tier has four advancements:
improving effort, improving an ability
pool, increasing edge, or becoming
trained in a new skill. Each time your
character advances, you can take one of
these four advancements until you've
taken all four, at which point you level
up to a new tier, unlocking additional
abilities and resetting the
advancements. You can do something
pretty similar in Dn D with a simple
hack. On your first advancement, gain
your next level of hit points. On your
second advancement, gain your class's
bonus feature for the next level, and on
your third advancement, gain everything
else and increase your level. You'll
need to tweak the specifics for your
game of choice. But while this allows
you to advance more frequently, you're
also acquiring abilities more gradually
and at a pace where you can still learn,
experiment, and master. Your final
option, if neither of those work for
you, is to split the group's leveling.
In old school Dn D, different character
classes require different amounts of XP
to level up. There were a bunch of
reasons for this, but one practical
effect was that different characters
would level up at different times. So,
in one session, the wizard and the thief
might level up together, and then the
fighter in the next session, and then
the cleric in the session after that.
You can easily do the same thing with
milestone leveling. Instead of having
all five PCs level up every five
sessions, have one PC and one PC only,
level up in every session. If if you do
this, I do recommend letting the players
decide who gets to level up each time.
It's also a good idea to encourage them
to shuffle the order that no one is
stuck leveling up last every time.
You'll probably also want to make sure
that everyone gets a chance to level up
once before a PC gets to level up a
second time. But you may be surprised to
find that some groups will actually want
to give someone an extra boost, either
because it makes dramatic sense, because
they did something cool and deserve it,
or because the whole group would benefit
from Susan getting a third level spell.
It's up to you whether to allow it, but
it's usually just fine to let them do it
if that's what the whole group wants.
Now, this technique, in fact, tends to
work best with groups that are focused
on the group's accomplishments rather
than just thinking about their own
character sheets. I know kung fu.
>> Show me.
>> These groups are getting the vicarious
thrill and celebration of someone
leveling up every session or or every
couple of sessions, but they are
individually getting plenty of time to
master their characters as they slowly
accumulate abilities over time. Either
way, adding new suites of abilities, one
character at a time, makes it a lot
easier for the group as a whole, to
learn those abilities and experiment
with them. It's a lot easier for me to
think about how I can help Chris set up
his new shadow flanking ability if I'm
not simultaneously trying to learn and
master all of my new abilities, too.
This is how you take chaos and turn it
into a welloiled machine. Now, so far,
we've just been talking about how fast
your group levels up at the table, the
time you experience as players. But
there's a whole another side to this.
How much time passes for your characters
in the game world? It can be
surprisingly easy to start as first
level heroes, end the campaign as 20th
level demigods, and then look back to
discover that the whole journey only
took like 3 weeks for your character.
And does that really make sense? How can
an apprentice who can barely rub two
cantrips together become a greater
arcanist than Merlin in less than a
month? And this can be exacerbated by
fast leveling. But it's really caused by
a hypercompression of unending action.
Real people need to eat and sleep and
study and relax and buy groceries and
just generally live their lives. RPG
characters generally don't. And so we
often just skip past all that stuff and
just keep driving to the next action
beat. And if you're okay with that, no
problem. But if you'd like to breathe a
little more air into your character's
lives, then you need to figure out how
to decompress the action. Uh, partly
that's about designing adventures where
characters can take a breather. I mean,
if the world is going to end in a month
or the Blitzkrieg is invading France
right now, then the PCs have little
choice but to keep going at maximum
speed. But even when the action can be
decompressed, you'll likely still need
to push the players into letting time
pass. Now, broadly speaking, this means
having some sort of downtime built into
your campaign structure. Old school D
and D did that by enforcing training
time. Earning XP wasn't enough. Once
you'd earned enough XP, you still needed
to spend time in character training your
skills up before you could level up. In
Ars Magicka, a game where you play as
wizards running a covenant, the campaign
is organized into seasons. During each
season, you can either go on an
adventure or undertake other activities
like research or magic item creation.
But you can go on no more than one
adventure per season, naturally
enforcing the passage of time. as long
as it's not fighting your narrative. You
can similarly force or encourage
meaningful downtime per level, per
adventure, or both, regardless of what
game you're running. If you've got a
narrative structure without any time
pressure, then you're good to go. For
example, it doesn't matter how long it
takes for Bilbo and the dwarves to reach
the Lonely Mountain. Smog isn't going
anywhere. Now, if you've got more bad
guys, though, a useful way to find
narrative structures that work with the
passage of time is to make sure the PCs
and the bad guys are playing by the same
rules. Think of it like this. The PCs
need time to rest, recuperate, gather
their strength, and generally get ready
to do the next thing they want to do.
Broadly speaking, the same thing should
be true for the bad guys. While the PCs
are resting in Riendell, Sauron can't
just blitz Minist the next day. He needs
time to gather his forces. Blades in the
Dark builds this right into the game
with downtime after every score and
factions limited to a single action
during each downtime with downtime being
required because it's how the PCs can
recover from injuries and stress they've
taken during their jobs. As a result,
it's not really a bad rule of thumb to
say that the bad guys can do one thing
at the same time that the PCs are doing
one thing. Even if you're running a game
without a formal downtime procedure, a
full discussion of downtime and all the
awesome stuff you can do with it,
though, would take a full video in its
own right. So, hit the subscribe button
and keep an eye out for that. Good
gaming. This is Justin Alexander and
I'll see you
at the
