All right, now that we've blown up that
room, let's go through the next door. As
you open the door, you see four goblins
crouched in the center of the next
chamber. They're gathered around a crude
fire, cooking a pot of stew. A thick,
meaty smell wafts over you. But as the
hinges of the door creek, the goblins
whirl around, drawing their sword on a
sec. If they heard the door creek, how
did they not hear the giant explosion in
the room next door 30 seconds ago? What?
or the fight before that, right? I mean,
why didn't they come help their friends
or or fetch reinforcements or or run
away? Oh crap, I think we broke the
[Music]
DM. As a game master, the great thing
about a dungeon is that it's firewalled.
When you're running a dungeon, the only
thing you need to look at is the room
the PCs are currently in. It's super
simple. Everything you need is right at
your fingertips. The drawback, of
course, is that this results in a very
static scenario. If the PCs are fighting
goblins in area 43, it feels like the
goblins in area 44 should hear them and
come rushing over to help, but because
they're behind the firewall because the
GM is only looking at area 43, they
don't. That's the limitation of a static
dungeon. So, you want to be a game
master, on the other hand, teaches you
how to run dynamic dungeons. This seems
pretty simple. You think to yourself,
"Okay, when there's a fight, I should
scan nearby rooms to see if there's
anyone who might hear what's happening."
And if you've gained enough experience
as a game master, and if there are only
one or two rooms nearby, you can
probably make that work. It's definitely
harder. You're you're having to flip
back and forth between different room
keys, but it's manageable. But what if
there are more rooms? What if there are
five or six or or 10 rooms within
Airshot? And what if instead of being
areas 43 and 44 right next to each other
in your notes, there's also areas 52,
63, 57, and 84. That's getting a lot
harder to juggle. And we've just gotten
started because so far we've only
considered the simple case of having the
bad guys hear the fight and then come
rushing to help. But what if the modron
over in Area 57 decides the most logical
course of action is to fetch
reinforcements? Where would it go to
find them? And now you're not just
flipping around trying to find nearby
bad guys to activate. You're flipping
through the whole dungeon trying to
figure out where the nearest barracks
are. And and what would the response of
the goblins in the barracks be and what
other areas will be affected by them as
they start looking for the PCs. You can
see how quickly this becomes completely
impossible even for the most experienced
game masters. We separated these rooms
because we can't run them all at the
same time. The firewall is too valuable
to run a truly dynamic dungeon. a
dungeon teeming with life and activity
and strategic complexity, you know,
without driving ourselves crazy. We need
a fundamentally different approach and a
new set of tools. Now, one tool we could
use is a random encounter table. Rolling
a random encounter won't make the
goblins in Area 44 check out what's
going on next door, but it will add
active monsters to your dungeon. It'll
break up the idea that the monsters are
just, you know, sitting in their rooms
passively waiting for the PCs to come
and kick down their door. We'll talk
more about breathing life into your
random encounters in an upcoming video.
So, hit the subscribe button in the font
of all knowledge to make sure you don't
miss out on that. But what we're going
to talk about today are adversary
rosters. When we add monsters to a
dungeon, we add them to our adventure
key. And because the primary thing that
we key or describe in a dungeon scenario
is the room, we add our monsters to
specific rooms. These are the goblins in
the library. These are the security
guards in the op center. And when we do
this, it's easy to fall into the trap of
thinking of the monsters as belonging to
that room. But our whole goal with a
dynamic dungeon is to not have the
denisins tied down to a specific room.
We want them free to move around and
respond to events in the way that real
people do. So, we shouldn't key them to
specific rooms. We need a different way
of keying them, of adding them to our
adventure notes. And that's the
adversary roster. I mean, it's
ultimately just a list of dungeon
denisens separate from the room key. The
basic building block of the adversary
roster is the action group. Now, you
really want to track every single
individual in the dungeon, so you group
them together for easier management. Of
course, some of your action groups can
be just a single guy if that's what's
most useful or makes the most sense for
the scenario. You'll also list the
starting location for each action group.
Most of the time, an action group will
consist of of all the adversaries in a
single location at the beginning of the
adventure. But sometimes you'll want to
take a really big group and split it up
into smaller units. For example, maybe
there are a dozen goblins in the
barracks. Rather than one big group of
12, it it might make more sense to have
two action groups of six. And now
figuring out whether to use one action
group or multiple action groups is is
pretty much entirely utilitarian. Do you
think that the group is likely to split
up and take independent action? Well,
then it should be two action groups. And
if not, then it should be one. The other
key thing here is that the action groups
are only listed on the adversary roster.
They're not listed in the room keys
anymore. Instead, when you're running
the adventure, you look up both the room
key, which describes the room, and then
check the adversary roster to see if
there's an action group there. And if
there is, then you you obviously just
include the action group in your
description of the room. And the great
thing, of course, is that you can use
the adversary roster to very quickly
figure out where everyone is in the
dungeon. And you can also easily move
those action groups around, actively
responding to the PCs and their actions.
All you have to do is periodically
update the adversary roster with the
group's current location. Now, this
does, of course, increase the complexity
of running the scenario, but but it's
not the exponential cascading increase
that we saw before. You're no longer
looking at just one room key at a time.
But instead of trying to juggle five
dozen room keys all at once, you can
usually limit yourself to looking at
just the dungeon map, the current room
key, and the adversary roster. You can
still keep all the information you need
right at your fingertips. Now, when I'm
actually running my action groups, I
tend to think of them as belonging to
one of several types. First, you've got
mobile groups. These are kind of the
default. They're keyed to a specific
location, but are are generally willing
and able to respond to the activities of
the PCs, wherever they may be. An
example of this is when one of the
goblins from area 4 flees to tell the
ogre in area 14 what's happening. Uh,
the ogre and his two henchmen are
another action group, and while they
start setting up an ambush for the PCs,
the ogre orders the goblin to fetch the
scale mages from area 8. Now, the second
type of action group is the patrol.
These groups make regular circuits
through a dungeon. Uh, for example, when
the goblin survivor arrives in area 8, I
might note that in addition to the scale
mages, there's also a guard patrol that
passes through this area. While the
scale mages go to answer the ogre king's
call, the guard patrol, alerted to the
PC's presence, rushes off to fetch their
battle or maybe something completely
different, right? I mean, these aren't
scripted events. The whole point is that
the adversary roster empowers you to
actively play the dungeon in response to
the PC's actions. I mean, if the PCs had
stopped that original goblin from
escaping, none of this would be
happening. Now, now, as far as patrols
are concerned, though, you can indicate
the areas they're patrolling in the
notes section of your adversary roster.
You can use these notes for for all
kinds of useful stuff. Uh, for example,
uh maybe this action group is carrying a
key to the dwarven vault in area 23, or
or maybe one of your action groups is
currently asleep. When we're talking
about patrols, I'll often list their
specific route. uh for example, they
might go from area 8 to area 9 to area
12 to the vault in area 23 and then back
to area 8. Now, our third type of action
group is mostly stationary. These groups
are unlikely to leave the area they're
keyed to. They they just won't respond
when the alarm is raised for for
whatever reason. This might be a choice
on their part or or it might not. Our
battle wars are an example of this. the
the goblins keep them in a kennel. So
unless some of the goblins go and fetch
them, the wars will stay where they are
until the PCs show up. Adversaries
waiting in ambush are another common
example of this type. They might go on
the move if it makes sense, but they're
far more likely to wait until the PCs
come to them so that they can spring the
ambush they have planned. Now, because
it's still very possible for mostly
stationary action groups to become
mobile, I'll definitely list them on my
adversary roster. But because they're
less likely to move, I'll indent their
entries to clearly distinguish them from
more active groups. Finally, we have
stationary adversaries. These are groups
which will never leave the location
they're in. And because they'll never
leave the location they start in, I
actually won't include these adversaries
on the roster. Instead, I'll just list
them in the appropriate room key. I
mean, after all, if they'll only be
encountered in that room no matter what,
there's no reason to clutter up the
roster with them. Stationary groups
might include uh literally immobile
creatures, uh those simply uninterested
in the rest of the complex, or creatures
that are sealed away until the PCs
disturb them. Of course, if the PCs
unleash the mummy queen sealed within
the lower vault and then run away, I
might add the now very active mummy
queen to my adversary roster for the
rest of the adventure. And this is
actually another cool thing about
adversary rosters. They make it super
easy to restock your dungeons as the
denisins are are killed, replaced, or
retasked. Because you've separated the
denisins from the key, you don't need to
go through and rekey every room with new
monsters. You can just create a new
adversary roster, often using the exact
same room key or a key with minimal
changes. For example, the PCs attack the
ogre king's domain and they retreat. The
ogre knows they're coming back, so he
calls in the goblin hunting parties from
the surrounding countryside. When the
PCs do in fact return, they find the
whole layer reinforced and all you
needed to do was spend five minutes
creating a new roster listing the
reinforcements. I mean, that's so easy
you could do it in the middle of a
session. And maybe on the second
expedition, harried by goblin patrols
and scale mages, the PCs are forced to
flee into the lower vault. And there
they awake the mummy queen before making
their escape once more. And this time
when they come back, they discover that
the mummy queen has slain the ogre king,
usurped his rule, and raised the goblin
dead as scarab zombies. And at this
point, the dungeon is anything but
static. But but we've also got lots and
lots of action groups running around. So
So how do we keep track of them all?
Now, most of the time, you can just use
the adversary roster itself, writing
down each group's location, then
updating it when they move. Uh but here,
come take a peek at this. If you print
out a copy of your dungeon map, you can
lay it out on the table in front of you,
just like a table map. And then you can
use numbered chits like this to identify
the location of each action group. All
you need to do is number each of your
action groups on the adversary roster.
And you can even move them around the
dungeon like you were playing a board
game or something like that. Now, in
this case, we have a caravansery, a
two-story building with balconies
looking down onto lower floors and and
windows looking down into the courtyard.
If a fight breaks out down here in the
courtyard, which of the bad guys inside
the building will be able to see what's
happening? Now, with the counters and
the adversary roster, it becomes easy
for you to see that there are archers in
area 15, and area 20 who have windows
that look down into the courtyard. You
can also see that there are
reinforcements in the stables in area 7,
and the dining hall in area 3 who can
come rushing out to help reinforce the
gate guards at the front of the
caravansai. The entire Kuravanserai is
trivially transformed into a dynamic
multi-level theater of operations. In
fact, is this whole fight here in the
courtyard just a distraction to pull the
guards from the rear gate in area 9 up
and around into the courtyard while a
different group of PCs sneaks in through
the back gate and tries to gain secret
entrance into the caravansery? And if
so, will the guards up here in area 16
be able to look out the windows and see
the PCs passing below? Maybe. Numbered
counters are pretty easy to find. You
can also make your own by printing out
numbers and gluing them to washers or
quarters or something like that. You
want something with a little bit of
weight, though, so that your action
groups don't get blown away by a passing
wind elemental. If you're using a
virtual tabletop, of course, it can be
even easier to set this up. If you do
the prep work to place all your monsters
on the scenario map before play begins,
you can just zoom out and manage them in
real time. It can also help to prep stat
block sheets for your action groups.
Depending on the role playing game
you're using, you might be able to put
the stats for all of your action groups
on a single sheet, but if you're playing
a game with more complicated stat
blocks, you might need to do a separate
sheet for each action group. Either way,
no matter where the PCs encounter the
action group, you'll be able to easily
grab the relevant stat blocks. In fact,
you can put that sheet on the table
right next to your dungeon map. Now that
you've got all your action groups on the
move, though, one pitfall you can fall
into is having everybody in the dungeon
immediately swarm the PCs. Now,
sometimes that's the logical outcome of
the PC's actions, and that's fine. Your
players will quickly learn to take
approaches that don't result in that
happening and to retreat and regroup if
it does. But in running a dynamic
dungeon, you should bear in mind the fog
of war. Even if the PCs attack one
action group, it doesn't necessarily
mean that everyone in the dungeon will
immediately know what's happening. And
even if the alarm does go up, some
action groups may be assigned to guard
other areas or simply have no idea
exactly where the crisis is happening,
particularly if the PCs are on the move.
The adversary roster gives you the
opportunity to roleplay the entire
dungeon. Seize that opportunity. Really
think about what each adversary or group
of adversaries knows and what they would
do with that knowledge. And while you're
role-playing each action group, look for
opportunities to seek the new status quo
for them. In other words, just because
an action group has been set in motion,
it doesn't mean they have to stay in
motion. When the ogre king sends a squad
of goblins to guard the dwarven vault,
those goblins will go to the vault and
then they'll stay at the vault. Once
that happens, you can stop thinking
about them, or at least you can stop
thinking about them until the PCs do
something to set them into motion again,
right? Finding this new status quo and
letting action groups uh settle down is
a vital technique for keeping the number
of action groups you're currently
juggling under control down to a
manageable number. In fact, if you're
ever in a situation where you feel like
your adversary roster is getting out of
control, that just means that you need
to identify which action groups can
logically go back into a holding
pattern. Whether that's stopping in one
room, establishing a new patrol pattern,
or going back to their original one. Of
course, the more practice you get
running scenarios with adversary
rosters, the more action groups will
become comfortable running at the same
time. There are also a bunch of advanced
adversary techniques that I share. And
so you want to be a game master and
you'll be able to take advantage of
those after you master basic adversary
rosters. Once you start running dynamic
dungeons, one of the things you'll
discover is that you'll also need to
start thinking differently about
encounter design. When you're running
static dungeons with isolated
encounters, you need each individual
encounter to be challenging in its own
right. Because the players are more or
less free to reset their resources after
every encounter. Every fight needs to
push the PCs to the brink and threaten
disastrous defeat because otherwise what
would be the point? When you're running
a dynamic dungeon, on the other hand,
the primary challenge comes not from the
tactics of the individual encounter,
although these are still important, but
from the strategy of the entire dungeon.
It's not enough to win the battle. You
have to win the war. It's a richer and
deeper style of play. And the core
concept here is combining encounters.
Obviously, when you're running dynamic
dungeons, whether you're using adversary
rosters or some other tool, multiple
action groups can join together into a
single encounter. If you design each
action group as if it were a skin of
your teeth static encounter, then when
two or more of those action groups merge
into a single dynamic encounter, they'll
annihilate your PCs. What you generally
want instead are action groups that if
encountered alone are relatively easy
encounters, but that can become
increasingly dangerous encounters if
they are allowed to join together. This
means that you as the game master don't
need to pull the bad guys punches, which
in turn creates a strategically
interesting scenario, baking in the
default strategic goal of don't let them
gang up on us. This is a fairly basic
goal of course, but one that can support
a lot of different solutions depending
on the circumstances. The players might
use stealth, overwhelming strikes,
negotiation, or you know, anything else
they can imagine. More importantly, it
builds a firm foundation on which more
complicated and custom strategies can be
built. The principles of dynamic
encounter design are are pretty
straightforward. First, you usually
don't want an encounter with one big bad
guy. These can be a nice change of pace,
but single opponents are difficult to
keep balanced and tactically interesting
against a gaggle of PCs. It's better to
have encounters with lots of opponents
to provide tactical complexity. Second,
encounters with a single action group
will likely have little immediate risk,
but they'll still require some strategic
ablation of resources. In other words,
an encounter with one action group
should be able to wear the group down.
The PC should lose a few hit points,
need to cast some of their spells for
the day, and that sort of thing. An
encounter with two or three action
groups, on the other hand, should be a
challenge encounter, but a risky one.
When four or five action groups all join
together, however, that's when things
are going to get tough. The PC should
still be able to win the fight, but it
may be touchandgo for a while or require
some clever thinking by the players.
You'll be helped here because such
encounters usually develop over time
with the fourth or fifth action groups
joining in the middle of combat, which
means the PCs won't be facing all the
bad guys at the same time. Now, what you
can see from these principles is that a
dynamic dungeon empowers you to have a
larger range of potential encounters,
ranging from the easy to the extremely
difficult without any of those
encounters becoming meaningless filler.
Exactly how these principles will apply
in a specific role- playinging game will
depend on exactly how that game is
designed. In D&D fifth edition, for
example, most of your action groups
should be designed as low difficulty
encounters. Use moderate difficulty
action groups sparingly. Uh the key
thing to remember is that a couple of
moderate difficulty action groups
joining up together can very easily
become an ultra lethal encounter. That's
why you want to use them as a as a light
spice. High difficulty action group
should almost never be used. You're
almost always better off letting such
encounters emerge from the strategic
flow of the scenario. But this does mean
that when you roll out the very rare
high difficulty encounter, particularly
in non-dynamic situations, you're going
to get real bang for your buck. They
have a cave troll. Now, if you're
playing a different role playing game
and and the game gives you similar
concrete guidelines for gauging
difficulty, you can probably use those
as a basis for dialing in the encounter
design that you need. If it doesn't,
then you'll need to experiment a bit to
figure out what easy, challenging, and
potentially overwhelming encounters look
like and the various ways you can split
them apart into effective action groups.
Now, as always, your group's mileage may
vary. Clever and resourceful players may
find ways to dominate your dungeons. If
that's happening regularly at your
table, feel free to crank things up a
bit until you find the sweet spot for
you and yours. Now, it may help to keep
in mind that you have to miss by a lot
and for a very long time before too easy
will ruin your campaign, but you only
have to miss once and by a little bit
for too hard to cause a TPK. It may also
be useful to remember that successfully
slipping through a situation unscathed
that you know could have turned into a
complete cluster can be a thrilling
edge of your seat thrill ride for your
players and perhaps a welcome change of
pace from all the cluster that
will inevitably happen in every other
scenario. Now, one of the key things to
really grock about dynamic dungeons is
that to at least some extent, it gives
the players a degree of control over the
encounters they face. With sufficient
strategic cleverness, they can even
design their own encounters, keeping
encounters easy by preventing action
groups from joining together, luring
enemies to locations of their choosing,
and so forth. This is very different
from a static dungeon where the
encounters are are locked to specific
rooms and you as the game master are
solely responsible for designing every
single aspect of them. In a dynamic
dungeon, it's not your job to crush the
PCs. It's your job to set the stakes
high and give them the opportunity to
screw up and push themselves to the
breaking point. Now, on the other hand,
not every dungeon needs to be or should
be a dynamic one. Adversary rosters are
a technique for locations with active
bad guys. Not every dungeon needs a
roster. Sometimes the PCs really are
cracking open dusty tombs that have lain
undisturbed for centuries, and they have
only themselves to blame when they
awaken the Eldrich horrors within.
Variety is the spice of life, after all,
and good scenario design is often about
finding the right tool for the job.
We'll be exploring more ways to advance
your dungeons in future five-star
dungeon videos. So, make sure to hit the
subscribe button before it fetches
reinforcements and grab your own copy of
So You Want to Be a Game Master at the
links below. Good gaming. This is Justin
Alexander and I'll see
you at the
