I've been told you can't do horror in a
role playing game. Now, this comes as a
surprise to me because I've been doing
it for decades. One of the biggest role
playinging games in the world is Call of
Cthulhu, a horror RPG. Some of the most
powerful narrative tabletop game
experiences I've ever had were in horror
games like 10 Candles, Alice is Missing,
and Trail of Cthulhu. I've been told you
can't do horror in Dungeons and Dragons.
Now, that's trickier, but I've done that
too many times. So, it clearly can be
done. The question is how? [music]
The first thing to understand is that
horror in an RPG is not going to be
exactly like horror in a film or a book
or a graphic novel or even a Halloween
haunted hayride. There are things those
mediums can do that you you really can't
do at a gaming table. But on the other
hand, there are things you can do in a
role playing game or a storytelling game
that you can't do anywhere else. The
fact that the players aren't just a
passive audience, but are active
participants in the scenario allows you
to achieve visceral emotional personal
reactions that are that are completely
unique and deeper and unlike anything
else you'll experience anywhere. These
are experiences that can stick with you
and your players for years and years.
And they all start with the one thing
that you absolutely must have for horror
to work at the gaming table. The players
have to care.
>> Wonder if he really cares about anything
or anybody.
>> I care.
>> They don't have to care about
everything, but they do have to care
about something. Their own PC at a
minimum. The whole group is better.
other stuff in the game world. That's
ideal. As a horror GM, your first job is
to know what your players care about
because you are going to be targeting
what they care about and threatening to
destroy it, to take it away. That is the
essential key to running horror games.
And importantly, note that what we're
talking about is what the players care
about, which may or may not be the same
thing as what their characters care
about. But the players have to care. If
they don't care about something, then
they cannot fair its loss. And none of
this is going to work. Which of course
raises the question of how you can make
the players care about something. And
the truth is that ultimately you can't
make them do anything. Caring about
something isn't something you can force
someone else to do. Of course, there are
certain things you can do as a game
master to encourage your players to
care, but this is a vast topic that's
probably beyond the scope of this video.
uh hit the subscribe button and leave a
comment if you'd like to see me tackle
that in the future. But for today, what
this largely boils down to is sincerity.
If you take the game seriously and the
players take the game seriously, then
caring about what happens within the
game world will will kind of just
happen. This usually follows something I
think of as the pyramid of care. At the
bottom of the pyramid is the player's
character. This isn't unusual at all.
It's pretty easy for players to get
attached to their own character. It's
something they've created. It's their
window into the game world. They may
have spent dozens or or hundreds of
hours playing them. They they certainly
don't want their character to die. Now,
one step up from this, the player will
start caring about their character's
stuff. They'll start by wanting a cool
new magical sword or or to run their own
detective agency. And then through hard
work, they'll get that stuff. And
[clears throat] having gained it, of
course, they will not want to part with
it.
>> After all, why not?
Why shouldn't I came in?
>> If you're lucky, then some or all of
your players will rise above these
purely self-centered cares. They will
begin to care about the world around
their characters. This will likely begin
with the PCs being played by the other
players. They are, after all, attached
to real people. But the real alchemy
happens when the players start caring
about the purely fictional elements of
the game. The NPCs, the factions, the
the locations. If you and your players
can build up a full pyramid of care, it
will greatly enhance any campaign you
choose to run. But for a horror game in
particular, a completed pyramid of care
means you'll be going in fully loaded as
a game master with every tool and option
at your disposal. Now, as long as you
have any layer of the pyramid, though,
even players who only care about their
own characters, you can still make a
horror game work. It'll just be a little
trickier. Now, this does mean though
that there's one thing that is complete
poison to the horror gaming experience.
That's the player who won't take the
game seriously. And this attitude is
unfortunately infectious. Once you've
got one player checked out from the
game, it's pretty easy for them to pull
the whole group into the gutter with
them. Now, this can sometimes be a tough
issue to diagnose. For example, let's
say you're running a horror game and the
players are cracking jokes around the
table. Is that a problem? Not
necessarily. It's okay if the players
are using jokes to distract themselves
from the danger. That's part of horror.
It actually shows that they're so
invested in the world that it's making
them nervous. They're using humor to try
to cope with the tension. But if the
players are using jokes to distance
themselves from the game world or to
ridicule it, that's a problem. Those
jokes deinvest the player's engagement.
There's a thin line between Buffy and
the Scooby Gang cracking wise and the
Mystery Science Theater 3000 crew
mocking a movie. Long story short, if
you're running a horror game and you're
having problems with disruptive
behavior, then it's useful to step back
and have a group discussion about
expectations. It's easy though for this
conversation to go the wrong way and
start focusing on things like no
laughing or horror is a serious
business, so everyone put on their
frowny faces. This is at best
ineffective. It can also easily
backfire. It's more useful, in my
experience, to drive to the heart of the
matter and ask them, "Why don't you
care?" For now though, let's put our
pyramid back together. The core of the
horror experience boils down to
threatening the stuff your players care
about. Threatening to kill them is
always a viable target. Although, oddly
enough, threatening to maim their
character is often even more effective.
And if you've ever played old school D
and D, then you know the true terror of
level draining undead. Maybe this is
because if you kill a PC, they can just
roll up a new character. But if you hurt
their character, well, then they need to
live with it. People say I would rather
die for a reason. There's some primal
human psychology at play here. If they
care about their fancy armor or their
bastion, that's great, too. Threaten to
destroy them. That's why stuff like a
rust monster can strike fear in even the
most jaded hearts. Of course,
threatening to do these things to other
PCs can be just as effective. Which also
means that simultaneously threatening
multiple PCs can often be exponentially
more effective.
You are going to die.
>> You can see how rapidly your options
multiply as you move up the pyramid. The
more things your players care about, the
more things you can put at risk. It
becomes a target-rich environment. And
the more targets you have, the easier it
becomes to threaten them. And the reason
I keep saying threaten is because that's
the important bit. If a rust monster
destroys your magic sword, you might
mourn its loss. Losing it might make you
angry, but you're no longer scared of
losing it. You can't be. It's gone. Now,
this isn't to say that you should never
kill a character or destroy something
they care about. We'll talk more about
that in a minute. But when it comes to
horror, the threat of loss, the
anticipation of loss is often more
effective than the loss itself. You can
be absolutely terrified and still live
to scream another day. Plus, if you take
away everything they care about or just
burn them out by destroying too many of
the things they care about, you can
literally kill your campaign. It it may
stagger on as a husk of its former self,
but it'll be utterly dead inside.
>> I am dead inside.
>> So, you ready to start threatening your
players? That's generally going to boil
down to some combination of danger,
helplessness, anxiety, and enigma. If
you perceive yourself to be overpowered
by something that wants to harm you or
the things you care about, then you are
in danger. This is the teenager being
chased by a guy with a chainsaw. Uh, now
the matchup doesn't have to be hopeless,
but the players have to believe that the
peril is real, that they can lose the
fight, that they can't save their
friend, that they can't stop the
horrible thing from happening.
>> Being in danger is often associated with
a lack of power. And this can lead to
the assumption that horror becomes
impossible if characters have a certain
amount of power. You can't do horror
with superheroes or Dn D characters or
colonial marines in a warship armed with
nuclear weapons. The reality is that the
amount of power you have is only
relevant because it influences your
relative power. And even relative power
is only meaningful because it affects
perceived power. As a GM, therefore, you
want to frame scenes that will
highlight, emphasize, and even create
this imbalance of power. Now, now some
monsters will have a reputation that
precedes them. And when the red dragon
unfolds its wings, every fifth level
character knows they're in trouble. For
other critters, you'll want to make sure
to clue the players in. That might be
finding huge footprints, horrific
environmental damage, or the corpses of
highlevel adventurers before they they
ever even see the bad guy. In other
cases, you can send a more direct signal
that might be dealing a terrifying
amount of damage in a single hit. Or in
Dn D, it might be as simple as casting a
single highle spell. If the wizard
serial killer can cast Mortyn Kanan's
Magnificent Mansion after all, well,
that means their next spell could just
as easily be a chain lightning, finger
of death, or a disintegrate. Another
good tip is to aim this demonstration at
something other than the PCs. To put the
fear of Strod in the players, for
example, you don't need to have him
attack them directly. Just let them be
witness to him absolutely destroying a
Bovian villager. It'll get the job done.
Another technique is to scale up the
demonstration. uh frame up an incredibly
tough fight with just one monster. Wait
for the PCs to barely tweak out a
victory and then tell them eight more
are heading their way. Now, if a power
imbalance doesn't actually exist, then
mislead the players into believing that
it does. If they believe the gaspore is
a beholder, then the threat of the
beholder exists regardless of the
reality. Okay, so that's danger. If
you're in danger and you see no way to
escape or fix the imbalance of power,
that's when you become helpless. This is
an escalator. So, seal the exits, strap
them to the table, drop them into a
maze, or cut them off from civilization.
Broadly speaking, you create
helplessness with obstacles. The
obstacles either keep the PCs from
reaching safety, or alternatively, they
keep the PCs from the thing they need to
save. Uh, put them in a temporal loop
that restarts whenever they leave the
house where the ash things are hunting
them, or throw up a force field with
their friend trapped on the other side.
You can also create a sense of
helplessness by disrupting the expected
gameplay. Find ways for the horror to
hit them in weird ways that bypass their
normal defenses or target their
weaknesses. Trolls, for example, were
terrifying because they regenerated
damage. Players who'd gotten comfortable
with stabbing stuff with a sword until
it stopped moving were suddenly
impotent. Now, this is less true now
with trolls, of course, because
everybody knows the gag, but you can use
the same trick in a lot of different
ways, including strange diseases,
cybernetic parasites, psychic
maelstroms, and other terrible things
that bypass D&D's hit points. You know,
this is also how sanity checks work,
creating a track of terror outside the u
the quote unquote normal damage
mechanics. And and once you've got the
players worrying about what happens
next, once they're they're not only
reacting to danger, but concerned that
danger or helplessness could happen to
them, that's when they become anxious,
which is our third pillar. This is a
force multiplier. A werewolf that
attacks you can scare you one time. A
werewolf that you're worried might
attack you can scare you over and over
and over again. In understanding comics,
Scott Mloud discusses the importance of
closure. Closure is a fundamental part
of how we perceive the world. We see
part of something and our brains
naturally fill in the rest. As Mloud
says, our perception of reality is an
act of faith based on mere fragments. As
infants, we're unable to commit that act
of faith. If we can't see it, hear it,
or touch it, it isn't there. The game
Peekaboo plays on this idea. Gradually,
we all learn that even though the sight
of mommy comes and goes, Mommy remains.
In an incomplete world though, we depend
on closure for our very survival.
Closure is an incredibly powerful
storytelling tool. Mloud goes on to say,
"You see that space between the panels?
That's what comics aficionados have
named the gutter. And despite its
unceremonious title, the gutter plays
host to much of the magic and mystery
that are at the very heart of comics.
Here in the limbo of the gutter, human
imagination takes two separate images
and transforms them into a single idea.
In a very real sense, comics is closure.
Every act committed to paper by the
comics artist is aided and emedded by a
silent accomplice, an equal partner in
crime known as the reader. I may have
drawn an axe being raised in this
example, but I'm not the one who let it
drop or decided how hard the blow or who
screamed or why. That, dear reader, was
your special crime. Each of you
committing it in your own style. All of
you participated in the murder. All of
you held the axe and chose your spot. To
kill a man between panels is to condemn
him to a thousand deaths. We do the same
thing at the gaming table. We provide a
verbal description of what happens.
Maybe we provide some visual aids. But
ultimately, every player at the table
performs an act of creative closure. The
monster, the couch, the dress, the
woman, what they ultimately see in their
mind's eye is something that they
created. This act of creation is
fundamental to role- playinging games,
and it inherently draws the player in
and immerses them in the game world. As
a creative partner, they are invested at
an incredibly personal level. And when
it comes to the anxiety of horror, we
can push this closure even farther.
Imagine yourself walking [snorts] down a
shadowy hall lined with doors. You know,
the werewolf is behind one of them.
Ultimately, of course, the werewolf only
jumps out once, or maybe it never jumps
out at all. But in the imagination, it
jumps out a thousand times. And with
Enigma, our final pillar, we can
leverage this closure even more. When
confronted with the unknown,
particularly a mysterious unknown, the
players will try to figure it out. Now,
it's not just that a werewolf might jump
out. It's that anything could jump out.
A dozen different horrors, all conjured
by the player's own imagination, lurk
behind those doors. In fact, is there
anything behind the door at all? With
the proper circumstance and priming,
when the players are properly paranoid,
their closure will create the threat of
danger or helplessness, either
heightening the sense of anxiety or
creating anxiety, even in situations
where it isn't necessary, even the
harmless, can become terrifying.
Building on the four pillars of danger,
helplessness, anxiety, and enigma, there
are a number of shortcuts and
multipliers you can use to create or
enhance horror. Phobias, for example,
have various sources, but they're all
pre-trained fear responses. They bypass
rational threat assessment and
immediately trigger a sense of
overwhelming danger. Now, to be
effective, of course, this means
targeting your players phobias. If
you're going to do this, it's probably
more important than ever to use safety
tools, which we'll talk about more in
just a minute. Another option, if the
players care about something other than
their PCs, is to place the endangered
thing at a distance. This danger at a
distance reduces the perceived ability
for the PCs to do anything about the
danger, thus reducing their perceived
power and enhancing their sense of
helplessness. Modern settings are great
for this because all you need to do is
have the killer make a phone call or
show them on a live feed. On the other
hand, you can endanger PCs from a
distance or in a way they don't
understand. If they can't [laughter]
figure out how to apply their power to a
mysterious danger, then they lose their
perceived power. For example, in my
adventure, the complex of zombies, I
introduced blood whites. These
terrifying undead could cause nearby
mortals to literally sweat blood. When
the PCs could see the blood whites, they
could fight them and destroy them. But
when I put one of the blood whites
behind a secret panel, suddenly all the
players knew was that their characters
were bleeding and they had no idea how
to stop it. You can achieve similar
effects through dilemmas. If multiple
things the players care about are
simultaneously put in danger, ideally in
different locations, being forced to
choose which one to help or to save, can
create helplessness. Or alternatively,
it might force the PCs to split up,
which is also great for horror. It
reduces the perceived power of the
characters and it lets you put isolated
PCs at risk, creating danger at a
distance for the rest of the group. You
can use the unexpected to create quick
enigma, disrupt the perception of
relative power, or maximize the
effectiveness of a phobia. Uh, jump
scares are a simple example of this, and
I did a video about them last month,
which you can find in the font of all
knowledge down below. But another
example of the unexpected might be
xenomorphs climbing through the ceiling
when you expected them to come through
the doors. Priming is another technique
in which you direct how the players
perform closure on the enigmas you
present. Uh this can include clues and
scene dressing. I mean a haunted house
is usually creepier than a sundrenched
beach, right? But it can also
importantly include meta special effects
in the real world. For example, horror
movies often prime the audience through
their soundtracks. specific music cues
or types of music or even the lack of
music can prime the audience into
imagining the worst possible outcomes
for even the most innocuous of actions.
You can do the same thing at the gaming
table. Uh playing subtle music to set
the scene. You can also play around with
things like light levels. It's it's just
creepier playing by candle light. In my
experience though, you usually do have
to balance the effectiveness of moody
lights and music against making sure the
game is still playable. Uh, fright will
give way to frustration pretty quickly
if the players can't see their dice
rolls. Another trick is to simply
mislead the players. Now, you hear
something scurrying in the next
compartment. Your motion senses are
going wild. It's right there.
Oh, never mind. It's just the cat. These
moments are another way of cranking up
the sense of danger, even in moments
where there's nothing to actually be
afraid of. In an RPG, it can be as
simple as calling for a die roll or even
just asking the players, uh, where
exactly are you standing? The ultimate
reveal that there was not in fact
anything to worry about in the first
place is also a chance to relieve
tension, which is also important when
running a horror game. You can't keep
the players on edge for 4 hours
straight. They'll burn out. You have to
relieve the tension so you can begin
building it back up again. On the other
hand, there's also the double reverse.
Oh, good. That that wasn't the monster
after all. Except the monster's right
behind you now. It's absolutely
essential, though, that it's the
character that's being misled. If you
describe strange noises, it's because
the character is in fact hearing strange
noises. If you start lying to the
players about what their characters are
seeing, things are going to fall apart
very quickly.
>> You lied to me and I trusted you.
>> Now, our final technique here is to
establish ruthlessness. In order for
horror to exist, the threat of loss
can't be performative. Uh the audience,
in this case to your players, have to
believe that the threat is real. And the
easiest way to make that happen is if
the threat is real, which can be
demonstrated by actually pulling the
trigger or swinging the axe or or
blowing up the bomb. This can be very
effective when dealing with problems
created by genre expectations. There are
all kinds of genres in which the main
characters are placed in jeopardy but
are never in danger of actually being
killed. And and this is particularly
true of the pulp genres and TV
procedurals a lot of RPGs are based on.
And modern RPG design has ingrained the
belief in a lot of groups that that
gameplay is supposed to be a predictable
series of fair encounters. The
expectation, therefore, is that the
players will constantly be placed in a
perception of quote unquote danger, but
will never actually be at risk. You're
obviously never going to feel helpless
if you know every encounter has been
designed to assure your triumph. Nor are
you going to feel anxious about the
possibility of facing the next so-called
dangerous encounter. Horror, of course,
becomes completely impossible under
these conditions. And often the only way
to break that long-held belief is to
bluntly demonstrate that no, in this
game, you andor the things you care
about are not safe. In the movie
Serenity, for example, there's a moment
where Simon gets shot. It's the kind of,
"Oh no, the hero's been winged by a
bullet thing you've seen in a hundred
action films." But I vividly remember
sitting in the theater and at this
moment hearing a woman sitting behind me
cry out, "Oh my god, he's going to kill
them all." It was like the words had
been ripped out of her. And that moment,
the deep-seated belief that the
characters lies really were on the line.
That was only possible because Jos
Sweden had already killed Wash and
Shepherd Book, two of the main
characters earlier in the film. He
established his ruthlessness. The
original Scream infamously did the same
thing when they brutally murdered their
biggest star in the opening scene. No
one saw it coming, and it instantly
established that nobody in the movie was
safe, heightening every moment of
anxiety and danger that followed. Wait a
minute. You want me to just kill one of
the PCs? Not at all. What I'm saying is
it is not your job to save them. But
this is also why it's ideal for players
to care about more than just their own
characters. Kill their horse. burn down
their house, infect their girlfriend
with an alien parasite that permanently
overwrites their personality. Because
then when you threaten to do those
things, or even worse things in the
future, your players are going to take
that threat seriously.
>> Oh my god, he's not bluffing. He's not
bluffing.
>> We still have to discuss the most
important part of running a horror game.
But first, I'd like to invite you to RPG
in the Jungle. Next year, in the spring
of 2026, I'll be running an exclusive
week-long RPG campaign at Citadel Fury,
the world's only handculpted gaming
fortress in the heart of the Amazon
rainforest. RPG in the Jungle is a
pilgrimage to the world's most magical
stage. A place where you don't just roll
dice, you become the hero. Your boots
sinking into mossy earth, your breath
mingling with the mist that curls like
spirits around ancient ruins. I hope
you'll join me for this
once-ina-lifetime experience. You can
find links in the font of all knowledge
below to book your trip now. But as
amazing as RPG in the Jungle will be, it
can be very easy for things to go wrong
at the gaming table, particularly if
you're running a horror game. That's why
we need safety tools. Being a player in
a horror RPG is very different from
watching a horror movie or reading a
Stephen King novel. When we're playing
the game, we can't flip off the movie or
put the book down. We're also literally
participating in what's happening in a
way that can make us a lot more
vulnerable. We want to be scared, but we
also want to have fun. The basic idea of
an RPG safety tool is that it provides a
concrete structure for the group to
communicate what's okay and what's not
okay. For example, John Stravopoulools's
X card simply gives each player a card
with an X written on it. If anything
happens during the game that a player
isn't okay with, they can simply tap or
hold up their X card. Most of the time,
the group can then just reccon,
redirect, or or skip past the
problematic element. In rare cases, if
it's not clear why the X card is being
used, a short discussion should identify
the issue and then play can continue.
Now, a key thing is that the person
invoking the X card doesn't need to
explain themselves. The whole point is
to give a simple, non-confrontational
abort signal. This can also make the X
card a great example of what makes
safety tools so cool. See, see the great
thing about safety tools is that they
let you take much bigger risks at the
table. They're a safety net. And when
you have a safety net, you can take
chances. With safety tools in place, you
can push boundaries with the confidence
of knowing that everyone at the table is
on the same page. A limitation of the X
card, though, is that it can only steer
you away from trouble after you've
already stepped on someone's toes. This
is where another tool called lines and
veils comes in handy. Uh, lines and
veils were created by Ron Edward. And
the basic idea is that before play
begins, everyone at the table indicates
topics that will not be included in the
game no matter what. These are the
lines, the lines you will not cross.
This might be stuff like child
endangerment or spiders or my Indiana.
Veils, on the other hand, are topics
which can be included in the game, but
which should not be described in detail
or dwelt upon in depth. When they come
up, you should draw a veil over them and
move on. After collecting a list of
lines and veils from everyone, which can
also be anonymized if the group likes,
the GM should put together a master list
and share it with everyone at the table
for easy reference. With lines and veils
setting your boundaries and X cards
backstopping to catch anything
unexpected, you'll have a solid safety
net for your game. Now, these are not
the only safety tools you might find
useful. I'll include some resources in
the font of all knowledge that you can
check out if you'd like to explore all
of your options. One drawback of safety
tools, though, is that they're
inherently negative. They're all about
the stuff that you don't want to be part
of your game. Now, this can create kind
of a weird bias towards negativity.
Focusing exclusively on all the stuff
you can't do can be kind of a bummer.
So, while you're doing your lines and
veils, I also recommend having your
players write their spotlights. This is
a list of things they would like to see
included in the campaign. It can help to
keep these lists focused. Uh, ask them
to do a top three or a top five, for
example. You can also focus spotlights
on specific topics. In a horror game,
for example, you might ask them for
their favorite phobias or have them make
a how I like to be scared list or a list
of their favorite scary movies. Now,
spotlights aren't an obligation. You
don't need to include every single
spotlight in the game. But spotlights
give you a pallet anytime you're looking
for inspiration. You could just grab the
spotlight list and see what works. I'll
be doing more videos on how to use
spotlights to run your best campaign
ever. So, that's another reason to hit
the subscribe button. But for now, let's
wrap up by talking about a couple of
things you should not do when running
horror adventures. First, don't tell
your players that their characters are
scared. We have an empathetic model of
mind. If we if we see someone smiling,
we reflect that emotion and become happy
ourselves because we have circuitry in
our brain designed to recreate the
emotions we see in others. Uh horror
films will leverage that to create fear
in the audience by showing a character
in fear. But just telling your players
what their characters are feeling won't
have the same effect. In fact, it can
often psychologically distance them from
those characters and have the opposite
effect. What you can do is vividly
describe the emotional reactions of NPCs
and even act those out, particularly
NPCs that you know the players care
about. Now, the bandwidth is limited
compared to a film, but the technique
can still be effective. Second, never
railroad the players into danger.
Railroading is never a good idea, but it
sure can be tempting in a horror
scenario. I mean, after all,
helplessness is one way of creating
horror. And what could make the players
feel more helpless than forcing them
into a predetermined outcome? The
problem is this helplessness isn't
diioetic. It's not coming from the game
world. So, instead of being focused on
the game world and the things that the
players care about in the game world,
it's focused on you, the guy sitting at
the table with them. And this emotional
redirection can disconnect your players
from the game world, causing them to
lose the investment that's foundational
to the horror experience. In other
words, they stop caring. And often the
fear you want them to be feeling is
replaced with frustration and even
anger. It turns out that true autonomy,
the players being in full control of
their choices, often heightens the
horror. It's only when choices matter
that enigmas are fully engaged with
because the players know the outcome of
those enigmas are not predetermined. I
mean, in the most simplistic form, if
they could solve this puzzle faster,
then they might be able to save Lisa's
life. But if they know that Lisa is
doomed no matter what they do, then why
care about the puzzle? When the players
feel true responsibility for what
happens? Because what happens is the
result of their choices, the guilt they
feel for those outcomes. And
importantly, the fear of experiencing
that guilt if things go wrong will
enrich their emotional response to
danger and helplessness. And that kind
of emotional engagement, of course, will
heighten the player's investment in the
game world. They'll end up caring about
more stuff, which will complete the
cycle and expand the depth and [snorts]
breadth of the horror itself. And to
begin this cycle a new, we begin with
the pyramid of care. Identify what your
players care about. Themselves, their
stuff, the rest of the group, the
characters and factions [clears throat]
and places of the game world. Then put
those things at risk, following our four
pillars of horror. The danger of losing
what you care about. The helplessness of
feeling that you can't stop the loss
from happening. The anxiety of fearing
such helplessness could happen in the
future. the tantalizing enigma which
engages your players and sets them
imagining an infinite variety of
dangers. And then finally, use your
shortcuts and multipliers to ratchet up
the tension. If you'd like more tips for
running horror adventures in your
favorite RPG, remember to check out that
video I did on jump scares last month.
It's lurking down in the font of all
knowledge. I'm also going to be doing
video reviews of some really cool horror
games later this month. So, hit the
subscribe button while you're down there
to make sure you don't miss those. If
you'd like to help support the team who
make videos like those and this one,
please consider becoming a member of the
Alexandrian YouTube channel. Members
gain access to a bunch of cool perks,
including exclusive videos.
Good gaming. This is Justin Alexander
and I'll see you
at the
