This video is sponsored by Dark Descent
from Mammoth Factory. More on their
exciting Kickstarter for a tome of
forbidden lore later in the video.
Picture a D&D campaign. There's a GM,
four or five players. You create
characters. You go on your first
adventure. Every week, this same group
gets together, plays a session, hits the
pause button, and comes back the next
week to pick up where you left off. And
you'll do this for 10 or 20 or or 100
sessions until the campaign comes to an
end. But this is what we call a
dedicated single group campaign. And
even though we think of it as the the
one true way to play an RPG, the truth
is that it's not the only way. In fact,
it's not even Arnison and Gyak ran the
original D&D campaigns. And now Critical
Role says that it's not how they're
going to run the new campaign for
either. So what do they know that you
don't? And what are the five key things
you need to know to run a campaign just
like Arnison Gyax, Brennan Lee,
Mulligan, and me?
[Music]
What we're talking about is a shared
campaign world. Instead of having a
single dedicated group experiencing
everything that happens in the world,
you can instead run multiple groups
simultaneously in the same setting.
which also means that the game world
doesn't wait around for the players when
they're not playing. Stuff keeps
happening there. A shared campaign world
lets a single GM support a lot more
players than they could at a single
table. I mean, you could of course also
do that by running multiple single group
campaigns at the same time. But a shared
campaign world can also mean a lot less
prep for the GM. And on the player side
of things, a shared campaign is exciting
because you're suddenly in a living
world. Your your actions aren't just
affecting the people sitting at the
table with you. They're affecting people
at at other tables, people you may never
meet. If if group A blows up a church,
then when group B gets together to play,
they'll see the smoldering ruins as they
as they ride into town. At my shared
tables, I've seen alchemists create
create new concoctions that have saved
the lives of people they've never played
with. I've seen people start
organizations joined by by real people
they've never even met. Our goal is
always to make the campaign world feel
like a real place where the where the
actions of the PCs truly matter. And the
cool thing about a shared setting is
that is that this is kind of true. There
are real people out there being affected
by what your character is doing and the
stuff they're doing is affecting you and
your character. A shared world campaign
just just hits different. But how do you
actually run a shared world? What does
it look like? Well, sometimes a shared
world campaign will evolve out of a
single dedicated table. Maybe you and a
couple of buddies get together on
Tuesday night. They they roll up a
halfling rogue and a halfling paladin
and start going on adventures together.
They're having a great time. In fact,
they're having so much fun that Shawn
tells a couple of his friends about how
cool the game is and now they want to
play, too. So, so you invite them and
they want to play halflings, too,
because well, because they think it's
funny. A few weeks later, your brother
crashes the party. The all halfling
stick is running a bit thin, so you
convince him to roll up a human ranger.
His girlfriend shows up for a few
sessions, but then has to drop out when
a new college semester starts, and she
ends up with a class on Tuesday night.
But apparently, everyone is having a
great time because they keep inviting
more and more of their friends to play.
And that's when you realize you have too
many players. Now, you could start
kicking players out, but it's not like
you don't like playing with your
friends. You just don't want to play
with all of them at once. So instead,
you split the group. Some of the players
are free Thursday night, so you start a
second table. The Tuesday night group
heads west and the Thursday night group
heads east. And this this is great. Both
groups are still pursuing the same
quest, just in different ways. One group
sees armies on the march that are later
fought by the other. NPCs cross over
between the two tables. Now, now Liv is
able to play on Thursday, so she comes
back, but decides to play a different
character this time. Later though, she
drops in on the Tuesday night table. the
guest stars or old PC. And in the big
finale, the actions of one group are
able to help the other group succeed and
vice versa.
[Music]
This is a shared world being played by
multiple dedicated tables. The events at
one table cross over with the events at
the other table and vice versa, but it's
generally the same group of PCs getting
together at each table and continuing
their adventures together. A West
Marchers campaign, on the other hand,
looks a little different. A West March
is a specific type of open table created
by Ben Robbins in which the campaign
takes place on the on the edge of
civilization. In Ben's case, the western
edge. There's a small community or
military fort or something of the like
located out there. And from this base of
operations, the PCs venture forth into
the unknown. Always to the west, never
to the east. Each expedition reveals
more and more of the secrets beyond the
horizon, with the PCs facing incredible
dangers and being rewarded with wondrous
treasures. Here's the trick, though.
It's not the same PCs each time.
Instead, the players arrange and
schedule each expedition into the wild
individually. The first expedition might
be Christina, Peter, Eric, and Allan
heading to the Temple of the Artificers.
Uh Christina and Peter might come back
for the next session, but are joined
this time by Sarah and Paul while they
check out why the farmers at Carowind
haven't been seen in town lately. After
Allan gets infected with Lyanthopia at
Carowwin, that group might play together
two or three more times while seeking a
cure. But but in between those sessions,
Eric might recruit Hunter and Gracie Lou
to follow a treasure map he found in the
Temple of the Artificers. When they come
back to town, their eyes are glowing
with a strange color which which they
refuse to explain to anybody else. And
meanwhile, Jacob has joined team
Lyanthropy and help them track down a
cure in the form of moon thistles
growing up by the ancient dam. In an
open table like this, every character
has their own story line. All of those
story lines coexist with each other. And
the totality of all these stories all
all existing in the same world and
interacting with each other and weaving
together is greater than the sum of
their parts. A West March style campaign
isn't the only way to achieve this
dynamic though. For example, this is
Castle Blackmore. It's the same model
kit that Dave Arnison built when he was
creating the modern role playing game
and launching that campaign that would
become Dungeons and Dragons. Beneath
this castle, Arnison placed a vast
labyrinthine dungeon. It was so large
that today we call dungeons like this a
mega dungeon. A dungeon so large that
you could play an entire campaign in
them and never run out of adventures. In
the Arnisonian mega dungeon, the
player's home base was Blackmore Village
at the the foot of the hill on which
Blackmore Castle was built. During each
session, just like the West Marchers
would later do, the adventurers in
Blackmore that day would form up an
expedition and journey down into the
depths of the dungeon, exploring its
strange secrets and then choosing to
share those secrets or not with the rest
of the adventuring community. In the
earliest days of Dn D, everyone ran an
mega dungeon. Everyone put a castle on a
hill and carved out a mega dungeon
beneath it. Greg Spencson, a player in
Arnison's group, created Tonixborg. Gary
Gyax copied the formula for his own
Castle Greyhawk. When Ed Greenwood
created Under Mountain in 1975, it was a
variation on the same theme. Following
in their footsteps, I ran my own version
of Arnison's Blackmore as an open table
for several years. Now, if you're
looking for your own D&D world to share,
you should check out Dark Descent from
Mammoth Factory Games, the sponsor of
today's video. Take the wagon down to
Deepold, a terrifying subterranean realm
where the surface has banished its
criminals. Here among the ruins of the
Anac Empire, the surface are trying to
make the best of their new lives. But
out there in the dark, the void crawl,
strange mage hunters from beyond time
and space, drawn to the arcane arts.
Beware and cast with care to avoid
becoming the target of something beyond
the ken of mortal minds. What dark
powers will you master to survive and
thrive in these terrible deaths? Dark
Descent will tempt you with forbidden
subclasses, infernal spells, and the
gruesome rights of blood alchemy. It
also includes the exiles of Deepold
Adventure Path, a six-part campaign of
corruption. Although freed from their
chains after being banished for their
crimes, the fate of the PCs becomes
inextricably bound to the lightless
depth due to the Eldrich infection known
as void stone sickness. I'm excited
about the dark fantasy survival horror
of the exiles of Deepold. There are
spoilers I'm not even allowed to talk
about that are that are blowing my mind,
but I'm enthralled by the setting. Uh,
we talked about the role a home base
like Blackmore can play in a shared
campaign world. In Dark Descent, Low
Town, the botany bay of the Underdark,
built into the ruins of an inverted
ziggurat from the Anoch Empire, is
absolutely perfect for this. populated
by the criminals and discarded exiles of
the surface world. It's a dim light of
civilization in a sea of darkness. A
tangled nest of factions, sins, and
halfbroken dreams, perched in the middle
of vast ruins and strange realms.
Countless expeditions can be sent out
into those stigian expanses, unlocking
secrets, both thrilling and terrifying.
And who can say what fate your players
will carve out for themselves down here,
shaping the destiny of what Low Town and
all of Deepold may become. So, let's say
that you hit the Kickstarter link in the
font of all knowledge down below. You
grab your own copy of Dark Descent and
you want to launch a shared campaign
world based out of Lowtown. There are
five key things you need to know to run
a successful shared campaign. First, is
this going to be an open table or a
multi-table campaign? For season 4 of
Critical Role, Brennan Lee Mulligan is
running multiple tables. The 13 players
have been split up into three dedicated
groups based on their style of play. The
soldiers, the seekers, and the schemers.
If you've got players who enjoy
different ways of playing the game, this
can be a great way to give everyone more
of what they love best. But there are
other ways to think about the focus of
each table, too. In our lowtown
campaign, for example, we might have one
group going out to explore the unknown
reaches of the deepold, while another
stays in town, enshed in the political
machinations of House Talona, the red
ladies, and Vzano, the bandit king. Now,
the other option, though, is an open
table. Instead of the soldiers always
playing at the soldiers table and the
seekers always playing with the other
seekers in an open table the players
freely mix and match and importantly can
play when they're available and skip the
sessions when they're not without
affecting everyone else's ability to
play. This gives open tables an immense
scheduling flexibility and also the
ability to support truly huge numbers of
players. This is how Onison and Gyax
played, and it's why the original D&D
rulebook talked about a campaign having
50 or more players. When I ran my first
open table, it grew to have more than 60
active players. And my new Mothership
Open Table has 20 players participating.
Running an Open Table has a number of
unique challenges and opportunities. And
I'm going to be doing a video deep dive
on the topic next month. So, if you want
to learn how to run your own Open Table,
subscribe. And in the meantime, when
this video is done, you can also check
out the open table manifesto in the font
of all knowledge. But for right now, the
next thing to consider is whether your
shared campaign world is going to have
one GM or multiple GMs. The advantage of
multiple GMs is that you can split up
the load. Multiple GMs can prep more and
run more sessions than a single GM can.
The drawback, of course, is that it
takes extra effort to coordinate with
the other GMs and and make sure all the
continuity between groups and sessions
matches up. There are some tricks you
can use to simplify this though. Uh, for
example, if you divide the campaign
world up into separate sections and give
each GM exclusive dominion over their
own section, you can dramatically reduce
the amount of information they need to
swap back and forth between them. For
example, although designed for a
dedicated table, the new D&D starter
set, Heroes of the Borderlands, divides
the Borderlands into three sections, the
keep on the borderlands, the wilderness,
and the caves of chaos. Now, instead of
having a single DM, you can give each of
these adventure books to a different
dungeon master. When the players go to
the keep, Julia runs those adventures.
And when they leave the keep and want to
check out the strange ruins they've
heard about in the woods, that's when
Asante can take over and run the
adventures in his book. Now, this also
means that Julia could jump in and play
her character when the group moves into
the wilderness and and vice versa for
Asante. Similarly, Dave Arnes eventually
added more dungeon masters to the
original Blackmore campaign, but at
least at first, they were running their
own dungeons. Players characters would
literally travel from Arnison's
Blackmore to Greg Spencenson's
Tonixborg, for example, at which point
Greg would be able to run them through
the adventures he had created there. For
our Dark Descent campaign, we might have
one game master who runs adventures in
Lowtown and another game master who runs
expeditions out into the deepold. I
mean, alternatively, we could slice the
Deep Hold up into quadrants and assign
each quadrant to a different game
master. Players might decide ahead of
time what type of adventure they want to
run. Okay, we want to head back out and
explore those fleshcraft laboratories,
right? So, we'll need to schedule a
session with Julia next time. Or if both
GMs are available, they might swap out
in the middle of a session depending on
where the PCs are going at any
particular moment. Now, with all this
table swapping and session swapping
going on, we come to another important
question. How many characters should one
player play? In most dedicated single
group campaigns, the expectation is that
each player has one character, their
character. And maybe they'll create a
new character if that one dies or
retires for some reason, but they'll
still only have one character at a time.
Chris is playing Kora. Heather's playing
Kitty Soth. That's it. Even in a
dedicated campaign, though, there can be
exceptions to this. For example, I have
a video about how players can run
spectacular sidekicks by running
multiple characters at the same time.
And games like RS Magica feature troop
style play, which will be the topic of
another upcoming video. In troop play,
each player has multiple characters and
chooses which character to play for each
adventure. But these are obviously the
exception, not the rule in dedicated
single table campaigns. In a multi-table
campaign though, some players might play
a multiple tables running different
characters at each one. And in an open
table, we often talk about players
having a stable of characters. Since the
structure of the campaign is already
flexible about who's playing in each
session, it's just as easy for one
person to pick any one of their five
different characters to play as it is
for any one of five different players to
show up for a particular night.
Depending on the exact form your shared
world takes, you may discover strong
reasons for preferring single PCs or
multiple PCs, but often either will work
depending on the preferences of the GM,
the group, and the individual player.
So, the next thing you need to think
about in a shared world is continuity. I
mean, group A is doing stuff at the same
time stuff is happening with group B,
and you need to make sure it all, you
know, fits together and and makes sense.
I mean, otherwise, what's the point of
all this? If group A burns down a
building in one session, group B
shouldn't find it completely unharmed
the next day. If Christina and Heather
are chatting about the campaign, they
they shouldn't discover that both of
their characters pulled the same sword
from the stone. There are sort of three
main things to think about when it comes
to continuity like this. First, keeping
time synced. You don't have to keep
multiple tables in perfect lock step
with each other, but you do
fundamentally need to know whether event
A from table one happened before or
after what's currently happening at
table two. Gary Gyax infamously wrote
that you cannot have a meaningful
campaign if strict time records are not
kept. And the fact he was running open
tables is one of the reasons why he said
it. Now, the other thing to keep in mind
about cross table continuity is that you
want to show the effect. If group A
actually does blow up a building, or I
guess you know, more likely when they
blow up a building, then you want group
B to see the smoking ruins. In fact,
depending on the strict time records
you're keeping, they might even hear the
explosion in the middle of their next
session. These shared events will become
more common the closer the groups are to
each other in the setting. But the
larger the event, the the farther away
its effects will be felt. And a truly
cataclysmic event might be felt
throughout the multiverse. Now,
conversely, this means that continuity
becomes easier to juggle the farther
apart the PCs are. It also becomes
easier the more closely synced their
timelines are. This is because if our
lowtown group gets 3 months ahead of our
deep hold explorers, for example, then
when the explorers return to town, we
can end up with a ton of established
continuity the next 3 months of events
that the deep hold explorers aren't
allowed to interfere with. It becomes a
straight jacket and it can be difficult
to navigate. On the other hand, if the
Deepold group gets three months ahead
and comes back to town, well, what
should town even look like? At this
point, our Lowtown group is slash was in
the middle of working with an undead
Anac noble to assassinate the bandit
king with the help of a dark maiden.
Will they succeed? I mean, if so, Low
Town is going to look very different 3
months later when those explorers get
back, which they're doing right now at
their table. You can see how confusing
this gets. So, the closer the PCs get to
each other in a shared world, the more
tightly you'll want their timelines to
align. Things can desync, though, for
any number of reasons. The the deepold
group might have scheduling issues,
allowing the lowtown group to surge
ahead of them. On the other hand, the
deepold group does a lot more traveling
than the lowtown group, which can chew
up a lot more of game world time in a
single session. Travel times, though,
can also work to your advantage. With
very little effort, you can fudge travel
times around to help reync your groups.
Or you can give a group that's falling
behind a scenario hook that requires
some some uneventful but time-consuming
travel so that they can catch up to a
group that's gotten ahead of them. For
similar reasons, the time between
adventures can really be your friend
here. When it comes to helping a group
catch up, there's nothing faster than
saying, "It's been 3 months since you
slayed the voidworm." Some games use
adventure terms. For example, Ars Magica
uses seasonbased play in which PCs can
only go on a single adventure each
season. These can actually greatly
exacerbate desynchronization between
tables since it forces everyone into the
same cadence of adventures. But if the
game also offers alternatives to
adventure, which Ars Magicka does in the
form of magical research, for example,
then they can also provide a structure
where characters that are falling behind
can quickly speed through multiple
seasons of play and catch up. Another
method is to sync the game world to
realworld time. If you go on a 3-month
journey in a single session, that's
fine, but your character will be locked
down until the rest of the world catches
up to them. This method is particularly
useful for open tables, and I'll discuss
that in more detail in that video. But
whether you're syncing to the real world
time or not, this is where having a
stable of PCs can also be very useful.
Players who end up with a massively
desynced character don't have to stop
playing. they can just swap to a
different character that's still in sync
and help everyone else catch up. Which
brings us to the final key for running
shared worlds. How the PCs at the
different tables interact with each
other. Now, the simplest method is to
simply leave the groups divided. The
lowtown group plays their game. The
deepold group plays theirs. They
occasionally experience shared events
and see evidence of what the other group
is doing, but they're ultimately each
playing their own game. You can spice
things up though by adding special
crossover sessions. These crossover
sessions might feature just a couple of
PCs jumping from one table to another
and back. But it could also be an epic
session with everyone playing at the
same time. Crossover sessions are often
something that a multi-table will build
up to over time. But Critical Role
launched their multi-table campaign with
several overture sessions in which
everyone played together before
splitting up into the soldiers, the
seekers, and the schemers. Of course,
running a session for a dozen different
players at the same time can be
extremely challenging. The excitement of
the crossover can make it worthwhile,
but if your multi-table features
multiple GMs and you're looking for
something, you know, maybe a little more
manageable, consider running a
multi-prong scenario. These scenarios
look like the end of the Phantom Menace.
One group is fighting the droid army,
another is infiltrating the palace,
another is trying to destroy the Trade
Federation flagship, and a fourth ends
up splitting off to deal with a Sith
apprentice. For a scenario like this,
you're basically running multiple
adventures simultaneously, quite
possibly in the same room, but certainly
at the same location or maybe the same
Discord server. Each table is pursuing a
separate objective, all of which combine
together to achieve their collective
goal. Importantly, multiprong scenarios
can also feature crossovers, shared
events, and all the other stuff that
makes shared world campaigns so cool. It
it just happens at a at a hyperco
compressed scale. For example, you might
have two of the tables join together for
a big fight to liberate the space
fighters before one team flies up into
space while the other heads deeper into
the pallets. And of course, you might
have a team create a distraction,
provide cover fire, remotely unlock
doors, or or otherwise assist each other
in any way they might imagine. Some PCs
might also shift from one table to
another over the course of the
adventure. Now, if you don't have
multiple GMs or if your gaming schedules
just can't align so that you can bring
everyone together at the same time, you
can get a similar effect at a larger
scale with a multi-prong quest. This can
be the structure of an entire campaign.
This is what we see in the Lord of the
Rings, where all of the heroes are
pursuing the destruction of Sauron,
whether they're trying to reach Mount
Doom to destroy the one ring, rousing
the ends, or fighting in the wars of
Rohan and Gondor. It's also how the new
season of Critical Role is going to be
organized after the overture with the
seekers, soldiers, and schemers all
pursuing different paths as they try to
discover the truth behind the f of the
fang. For something even more
challenging, though, rather than having
the groups allied with each other, they
can instead play each other's
antagonists. Returning to Dark Descent,
for example, we could imagine one group
working as agents of House Talona,
trying to build Lowtown into a
prosperous trading hub between the
surface world and the riches of Deepold.
And we could imagine the other group
working as agents for the bandit king,
secretly working to undermine House
Talona's control and liberate the city.
Such campaigns require a great deal of
care and flexibility when it comes to
managing continuity between the two
antagonistic groups, but the results,
they can be thrilling. The players get
to set themselves against equal
opponents in an epic battle of wits. And
as the GM, you have ringside seats. The
possibilities of a shared world are
truly only limited by the imaginations
of you and your players. I'd like to
thank Mammoth Factory for sponsoring
this video. Their Kickstarter campaign
for Dark Descent featuring 400 plus
pages of setting and adventure material,
eight forbidden subclasses, eight
subterranean races, 40 Underdark battle
maps, 50 infernal spells, 70 unholy
monsters, 50 profane magic items, and
more than 200 highly detailed STL
miniature models is happening right now.
Click the link in the font of all
knowledge down below to back it and let
them know the Alexandrian sent you. Now,
if you decide to run your own shared
world campaign out of Low Town and into
the depths of the Deep Hold, come back
and let us know how it goes. Good
gaming. This is Justin Alexander and
I'll see you
at the
