You pry open the door with a screech of
metal. The the rusted hinges give way
and the entire door crashes down into
the room beyond with a with a boom that
echoes through the twisted maze of
corridors. Oh, that's okay. I'm sure
nothing heard that. Yeah. What's inside
the room? Okay. Well, it's a wide long
chamber. Down the middle of the room are
a halfozen low stone workts. Um, above
each of the tables there's a there's a
twisted mass of of complex machinery
attached to the ceiling. Um, all of
these machines are are rusted and
corroded with age. All of them except
for one. Which one? Uh, it's the one in
the far back on the left side. The
tables are arrayed in two rows of three.
Okay, got it. I'm uh I'm going to go
check that table out. You cross the room
towards the tables, passing between the
the ancient workts to either side. What
are you doing exactly? I want to examine
the machinery. Can I see any reason why
it's still working? Okay, give me a
search check. Uh 14. Okay. You
cautiously approach the bench and then
and then you reach up. As your hand
nears the machinery, the illusion spell
cloaking the table vanishes, revealing
the gruesome corpse of a wolf lying on
the tabletop. Its back has been cut open
and the flaps of flesh carefully
pinioned to the table, revealing the
bones, muscle, and internal organs
within. Ew. Jump scares don't really
work at the gaming table. The classic
jump scare from film and TV combines
audio and visual surprise, usually
backed up with a soundtrack, stinger,
and heightened by the actor's reaction.
It's a bunch of stuff all happening at
once.
As a GM though, you're mostly limited to
just your voice. So, you can fake it a
little bit if you literally just scream
at your players. You crack open the door
and blah, but it usually lacks the same
punch. You can kind of startle your
players, but they won't really see
what's lurking behind the door because
the jump scare, to be a jump scare,
needs to be instantaneous, and
explaining what they can see can't be.
It takes time. With that being said, you
can achieve moments that are broadly
similar to jump scares by including
unexpected twists in the middle of your
descriptions. You're describing an
idilic glade and they stumble over a
bloody corpse. They open a door and
you're midway through describing the
room in front of them when the door
behind them slams open. Roll for
initiative. This works best if you don't
say stuff like and then suddenly. Or at
that very moment, you want a sharp
pivot, not a turn signal. You'll know
you've got it right when the players do
a double take and focus in. Wait, did I
did I hear that right? With the players
thrown off balance, you've got a chance
to follow up with a gruesome detail, a
monstrous horde, or a terrifying threat.
Land the right blow in that moment, and
you can send them into a total panic.
Now, because it's so important that the
initial pivot come fast and hard, you've
basically got one sentence to make it
work. A door slams open. A window
shatters, the lights go out or explode
in a burst of light, a zombie's fist
punches up through the ground and grabs
their ankle. This works because the
single sentence is giving just enough
shocking detail to imply that something
terrible is about to happen. Tropes and
motifs supercharge this. If your
sentence plays off familiar tropes, that
can trigger your player's Peter tingle.
>> Please do not start calling it my Peter
tingle.
>> That's how the vivisected wolf worked.
My players had been primed through years
of experience to know that illusion
spell suddenly vanishing in the middle
of a dungeon usually means something
very bad is about to happen. Okay. Is
this one bad? What do you mean? What do
you What do you mean? What do you mean?
>> The panic, therefore, is immediate. And
that gives you the tabletop jump scare,
opening a void of uncertainty and fear
that you can then immediately fill by
following through with a description
that gives the full context of exactly
why the PCs are screwed. Wrap things up
by forcing the players to engage with
the situation. Seeing a zombie at a
distance can be really creepy, and
that's great. But if the player needs to
immediately react to the zombie grabbing
their foot, because otherwise it's going
to rip out their throat, well, that's
going to pull the player into the world.
Forcing them to interact with the scene
like that will also immerse them into
the moment more deeply. You can do this
without jumping straight into combat,
though. Uh, the wolf, for example, isn't
a monster. It isn't going to attack the
PCs, but in context, it's a mystery.
They'll quickly discover that it's been
frozen in time. How? Why? Curiosity will
pull the players in and answering the
questions will engage them. And that's
the secret to a tabletop jump scare. But
here's the twist. This video isn't about
jump scares at all.
>> What I mean, if you think about it,
maybe while staring into your fridge
later, why was there an illusion spell?
I mean, this worked really well at the
table, but it's a little weird, right?
And that's because this whole scenario
was the result of a mistake. When the
PCs entered this room, I was supposed to
describe the wolf's corpse lying on the
table, but I misread the room key. Oops.
If you'd like to avoid making a mistake
like this in your own game, then
Describe, the sponsor of today's video,
won't be able to help you at all. After
all, Describe can't stop you from
misreading their award-winning
descriptions. Even if using them along
with Describ's immersive soundsscapes
and interactive maps can greatly enhance
your games, whether you're using their
full-blown adventure scenes or picking
the stuff you need for your own
adventures. Alakart, use the affiliate
link and the uh font of all knowledge
down below to support the channel and
let Describe's team of talented writers,
composers, and illustrators enhance and
inspire your creative vision. Even
though Describe couldn't save me once I
realized my mistake, I knew I had
several options with The Wolf. First,
the wolf no longer exists. I didn't
describe it. The environment has been
interacted with as if it wasn't there,
and so it's not there. It never was. My
notes never made the jump from prep to
the reality of what's happening at the
table. If you're dealing with something
non-essential, this can be the easiest
solution. In the case of the wolf, it
was technically non-essential, but it
was very cool, if I do say so myself,
and it would have been a shame to toss
it out. So, our second option is the
simple retcon. Uh uh whoops. Um I forgot
to mention there's a a dead wolf on the
operating table. This is pretty
straightforward, but has the big
drawback of completely disrupting the
natural flow of the game. This
disruption is often not so significant
as to cause problems, but sometimes it
is. Uh for example, the PCs have already
taken an action or multiple actions that
they wouldn't have taken if they knew
about the information you forgot to tell
them. Unraveling this continuity can be
incredibly difficult or even impossible
if the players have since gained
knowledge they didn't have before the
mistake. In this case, the PCs hadn't
taken any actions at the point where I
realized I'd screwed up. But I knew that
the reccon disruption would blunt the
impact of the moment. The players would
be focused on the reccon and wouldn't be
fully reacting to the description. And
since the entire point of the vivisected
wolf was its creepy imagery, blunting
the impact of that imagery would make it
all pointless anyway. So our next option
is to swap rooms around. This technique
is great if there are a bunch of similar
rooms in the same area. For example, if
the PCs are supposed to find a dress
with some weird stains on it in the
master bedroom, but you goofed up, well,
I mean, I guess the dress is actually in
the closet of a different room, or maybe
it's in the laundry room downstairs. So,
if there had been another convenient
examination room nearby, I might have
just moved the wolf corpse into there.
Unfortunately, this was actually the
last examination room in this particular
dungeon that the PCs had already
explored all of the other ones. Which
leaves us with a solution that's
trickiest to pull off, but often the
most satisfying in play. You just need
to create a reason why you're a screw-up
wasn't a screw-up. This is what I did
with the wolf. Why didn't they notice
the wolf as soon as they walked into the
room? Well, because they couldn't see
it. Why? Uh because there was an
illusion spell. In more technical terms,
I moved the wolf from passive
observation, which is automatically
triggered, and turned it into something
that required interaction to perceive.
But you can apply the same technique in
other ways. Now, that NPC really should
have told them about the Duke's
relationship with Countest Love Lace.
So, why didn't they? Well, just come up
with an explanation. Blackmail, a hidden
agenda that creates a conflict of
interest. I mean, one cool thing about
this technique is how often it actually
makes the adventure more interesting.
The tabletop jump scare of the illusion
dropping was a great moment. An NPC with
a secret agenda is probably more
interesting and the scenario more
dynamic than if they just blabbed out
the information. I mean, the trick
though is that there's probably a reason
why this extra layer of interest didn't
exist in the first place. Or maybe not.
I mean, good ideas develop through play
all the time, but it can be difficult on
the fly and in the middle of a session
to make sure all the continuity tracks
on your hidden retcon, which can be
intimidating. Uh, for example, what if
the players want to know why there's an
illusion spell covering the operating
table? Well, first, of course, you
should have some rough idea of why the
retcon makes sense, even if it might not
completely hold up to close scrutiny. In
this case, my rationalization was that
the wolf in mid-surgery is super gross.
Nobody wants to look at that. You might
as well throw up an illusion spell. So
you don't have to, right? Second, you'll
benefit from the fact that continuity
problems that seem glaring to you behind
the screen will be significantly less so
to your players. They don't have your
omnisient knowledge of the situation.
Our vivisected wolf, for example, ends
up being pretty deep into fridge logic
territory. And finally, when put to the
question, you can just smile
enigmatically. You're not obliged to
pull back the curtain on your campaign
and explain its inner workings. If
something seems mysterious to the
players and they want to figure out the
why and the wherefore of it, the
obligation lies on them to take actions
in character to figure it out. And while
they do that, you'll probably be able to
flesh out your initial rationalization
to the point where it does actually make
complete sense. We're close enough. As
we wrap things up here, it's important
to remember that none of these
techniques are ideal. On the other hand,
YouTube loves engagement. So, please do
head down to the comments and remind us
that we should never ever rewrite
reality or lie to our players or have
stuff in our game that doesn't make
sense. On your way down there, remember
to hit the subscribe button, but also
try to remember that in an ideal world,
we wouldn't screw up the room
description in the first place, right? I
mean, this is all triage. Oh, if you'd
like to see the adventure our dear
friend, the vivisected wolf comes from,
it's called Laboratory of the Beast, and
it's available for free on my website.
I've included a link in the font of all
knowledge down below right next to that
describe link. If you do check out the
adventure, you'll discover that I like
the illusion dropping jump scare so much
that I ended up adding it to the
scenario notes so that you can use it,
too. If you'd like to support my videos,
my adventures, my website, and any other
mischief that I might get up to, you can
also support me on Patreon. There's a
link for that in the font, too. If
you're already a patron, thank you so
much. This really wouldn't be possible
without you. Good gaming. This is Justin
Alexander and I'll see you
at the
