Since the dawn of time, goblins have
lived happily in the goblin woods. They
ate whatever they pleased, blathed in
the swamp, and thrived under the
watchful eye of the goblin king. Upon
his brow sat the greatest of all goblin
hats, the crown of the goblin king. But
one sickly sunny day, vicious gnomes
swarmed the woods, and in a great battle
the king fell. The crown shattered into
seven fragments scattered across the
woods depths. Still a legend murmured by
the matrons fortells a valiant goblin
who shall one day reunite the shards,
banish the gnomes and restore joy to the
woods. Are you that goblin?
Guys, gals, and non Yeah, guys, gals,
and non-binary pals, welcome to the
Alexandria. Today, we are taking a peek
at a game called Goblin by Wshek
Kasinski, whose name I hopefully have
not butchered too much. Uh I became
aware of this game when I went to Pircon
in uh PH in Poland uh back in June.
Roshchek very kindly came and uh gave me
a prototype copy of of the game Goblin
and I had a chance to look through it
and it is a really cool little sort of
solo tabletop narrative game and I
thought it would be fun to take a peek
at it today. So that is in fact what we
are going to be doing today. Okay, let's
dive in uh and take a peek at Goblin, a
solo RPG about a goblin's life. The game
centers around exploring this little hex
map, which I think is a super cool
technique I haven't personally seen in a
little solo game before. But if we go
ahead here, we can see here, this is the
introduction that I was reading before.
And then here is a breakdown of the map
and the various regions and locations
that we'll be able to visit as a goblin.
We're going to start here with the rules
of play. You are a goblin. You speak
goblin and you can see in the dark. You
begin the game in the goblin village,
uh, which is back on the map. You can
see in the center of the map there. You
begin with a stabber and a mouthful of
10 plus 2d6 heat. So, we're going to go
ahead and I'm going to be rolling dice
physically because that is how I roll,
pun intended. So, I'll have some dice
here and I'll report the dice rolls to
you. We also have uh over here we can
switch to a character sheet. So, it says
that we start with a stabber. The other
thing it says is that we have 10 plus
2d6 teeth. So, I'm going to roll 2d6.
I've rolled seven. So, we're going to
start with 17 teeth. We'll put that
right in there. So, we have 17 teeth, a
stabber. Back to the rule book. So,
don't spend all your teeth at once.
You're going to need at least one to
eat. Goblins are not so picky, so you
can eat anything even remotely edible to
recover a whooping one hit point. To
determine your attributes, roll D6 each
for stabiness, sneakiness, and
spelliness. A roll of 1 to two means
negative 1. 3 to four means zero, and
five to six means plus one. All right,
let's go do that real quick. So, I'm
rolling a d6 for stabiness. I've gotten
a five, so that's a plus one for
stabiness. Same thing for sneakiness. I
rolled a one, so I'm very unsneaky.
Negative one. And I also rolled a one
for um spelliness, so I'm also negative
one in spelliness. does not bode well
for this particular goblin becoming the
goblin king, but we'll kind of see how
it goes. These results are your
attributes. If you find this method too
random, you could distribute these
values instead. Let's just go for it,
right? We can always I mean, I'm
assuming this goblin's going to die a
horrible death in the woods. So,
eventually we may go through a second
goblin here. Uh, okay. So, we have our
attributes now. Whenever the text
specifies an attribute and a number,
roll a d6 and add your attribute value
to the result. If the total equals or
exceeds the target number, your goblin
succeeds. Great. That's really
straightforward. Combat is always a
stabiness test. The enemy strength is
the target number you need to meet or
beat. If you succeed, you deal damage.
If you fail, you take damage instead. If
you defeat the enemy, roll to see how
many teeth you've knocked out. They're
yours to keep. Now, all
so, so these gallons go around and they
they have teeth that they use up pretty
quickly, but they can knock other
people's teeth out and jab them into
their into their face, which is actually
that's incredibly not just other people,
right? It is also like monsters. Like
you you knock out a boar and you rip out
its tusks and like and jam them into
your uh into your teeth. I wonder if
like cow teeth is like an insult among
the goblins. Like oh look at old cow
teeth over here. You the only teeth he
can get is by going out and ripping
teeth out of the local cow pastures.
What a loser.
All right. Um
so we can So when we when we defeat an
enemy, roll to see how many teeth you've
knocked out. They're yours to keep.
Alternatively, you can choose to flee,
but you'll take D4 damage when doing so.
So, stabiness test, try to beat their
number. Succeed, deal damage. If you
fail, take damage instead. If you defeat
the enemy, roll him teeth knocked out.
Or you can always choose to flee, taking
D4 damage as you do so. Okay, great. So,
then we have movement. We're going to
start in the village. Your defective
goblin attention span means you won't
sit still for long. Uh, how do they know
me so well? When you enter a hex,
resolve one of the actions described
there and then dart off to the next. So
each time we go to a hex. We'll do one
action and then and then move on. So
that's great. Okay. And then here we
have hats. So goblins clearly put a lot
of emphasis on hats. We're seeking out
the greatest hat of all which is the
goblin crown. Uh which has been broken
apart and scattered through the woods.
Before embarking on your journey, pick
one of the hats. We have a tin hat,
which is very sturdy, protects your
noggin. If an enemy rolls maximum
damage, you take none instead. Or we can
take a dirty hood, uh, once bright red,
now a grimy rag. If the damage rolled
when fleeing is three or four, you slip
away unscathed instead. And then we also
have a pointy hat, which is reserved
only for goblins of great wisdom. Have a
peek at the contents of the secret page
18 to 19. You know, I think, you know,
it's a secret page, so I think we're
going to leave it secret for now. So,
let's pick either tin hat or or dirty
hood, and let's see how we uh let's see
how we do. You know, let's just
randomize this, I think. Uh, so I'm
going to roll a d6. One through three is
going to be tin hat. Uh, five, uh, four
through six is going to be dirty hood. I
rolled a six, so we're going to have a
dirty hood. So, I'm going to go ahead
and go back to our character sheet, and
we'll go ahead and note that down. Uhoh.
Why Why is that not working?
You know what? We'll do that with my
with my with my slightly defective uh
goblin character sheet. very uh very I
think very thematic for for the goblins
that we seem to be playing here
entirely. All right. Uh so those are the
rules of play. Uh next page here is
advancement. So when you require a crown
fragment, you may immediately return to
the goblin village and pick one of the
following boons. You cannot pick the
same boon twice. Uh so we'll come back
to this. We can increase our stats. We
can uh roll for teeth. When rolling for
teeth, you may roll one die, which is
like an ability. Pick one beast, one
gnomen, one monster. From now on, they
only deal half damage. Cool. Uh, from
now on, all goblins address you as boss.
After retrieving the seventh fragment,
you dawn the crown, become the new
goblin king, and win the game. You can
only find one crown fragment per hex
type. Okay, good to know. Which
explains, if we go back to the character
sheet, we can see that we have a crown
fragment, and then we also record what
hex we found that crown fragment in.
Uh, did I roll my health? That's a great
question. Did I miss that?
Uh
to determine your attributes. Yeah. Oh,
next roll. D6 plus4 for health. Thank
you, Econ. My eyes just did not want to
read that sentence for some reason. Uh I
will annize six. So, this is actually a
very potentially very durable uh little
goblin. So, we're going to get uh 10
health to start. That's fantastic. Good
thing you caught that. We would have
died immediately otherwise. Uh all
right, so we're looking for crown
fragments. Weapons. The value in
parenthesis is the damage that you deal.
Plus one to attack means plus one to
your stabiness roll during combat. We
can see the variety of weapons here
ranging from fist to stabber to big
stabber, stabber on a stick, and so
forth. Now, we have a certificate of
goblin quality on the stabber, which is
if we roll a one on damage, uh, we need
to then roll a d6 on a one or two, the
weapon breaks. I'm going to count on you
guys to help me remember that my stabber
can break if we roll a one on the
damage. But, I am going to go ahead and
over here and note on my equipment list
that the stabber is D4. So, I remember
that that's how much damage we are
dealing. Um, if it breaks, I have to
make sure we also come back and figure
out how much fists do. So, we'll be fine
there.
All right.
So, all right. Now, let's see. We need
to begin in the goblin village, it said.
So, we'll go ahead and drop our little
goblin icon on the village there. And we
are here in the village. So, deep in the
heart of the woods lies a hidden village
of crooked huts. This ramshackle place
is where the goblins call home.
protected not by walls, but by the foul
stench that would drive any man, elf, or
dwarf away.
Okay, great.
All right, so we're in the go G goblin
village. So, we get to do one thing
because of our goblin attention span,
and then we're going to move out into a
neighboring hex. Uh, so let's let's
actually let's do this. Let's
go over here. So, I'm going to start a
poll here and uh we'll let you guys kind
of decide at least our initial direction
here. We'll see how well this works.
Which way should we go after the
village? And so, we're going to have Oh,
actually, maybe I can't do this. One,
two, three, four, five. Twitch is only
letting me do five poll responses, which
is one less than directions. So, I'm
going to do is eliminate one of the
directions with a die roll. I've
eliminated northwest.
So we will do north
northeast
uh southeast
uh south and southwest
and we'll give you guys a few minutes to
do that. Let's go ahead and start that
poll. Let's see how that goes. All
right. Meanwhile, while you guys
deciding where we're going to go as we
bounce out of the goblin village, first
we need to resolve what happens in the
goblin village. And that is we can
either shop at the fat goblin store or
uh we can ask the matron for help. So we
need to pass to ask the matron for help,
we would need to pass a four uh
spelliness check.
[Applause]
Uh if we wanted to buy things at the
stores, we would need to spend some of
our precious teeth. At the moment, we
have 17 teeth. So,
do we think it's worthwhile to buy some
some some stuff? Apparently, we can
actually buy a crown fragment for 40
teeth. So, there's a goal to think about
uh in terms of how to get to the end
where we we get our seventh crown
fragment. Uh AOPlast recommends rope.
That was also standing out to me, but
boy, that uses up a lot of our teeth.
But it is interesting. It's the one
thing that's like a utility thing. So,
I'm going to I'm going to follow
Aoplast's recommendation here. I think
we're going to buy a a a rope, please.
Uh Mr. Fat Goblin, sir, please. Uh I I
will expect you to pay me back when I'm
the boss. Well, I didn't I didn't say
anything. No, no. So, we're going to
spend uh we're going to spend uh some
teeth there. Here you go, sir. Uh and
then we're going to go ahead and we're
going to rope a good goblin rope made
out of hemp. I'll try to smoke it later.
All right. So, I you know, I'd love to
ask the maid for help, but I don't think
that I can. I think we got to go. We got
to go. The crown fragments are awaiting.
Let's go. Oh my goodness. Have you guys
voted yet? Oh, I don't know where to go
yet. Where are we going? Oh, you guys
are evenly divided. No, you're going to
make me make a decision. No, I need more
votes, people. We got to know where
we're going, please. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh,
we have we have a little bit of a we
have a little bit of a thing going on
there. That's good.
Dice are trying to escape from me over
here.
All right, we got we're down to five,
four, three, two, one.
All right, by marching. We're going
south. We're heading over to the
Southlands.
All right, we're heading off into the
spooky goblin woods. All right, so we're
in a goblin wood hex. So, we're going to
go to this page here. We are in the
woods. The goblin woods are full of
ancient trees stretching towards the
skies. A wise goblin knows to stick to
their shadows unless they fancy becoming
supper for the wild beasts that dwell in
the depths of the woodland scamps. You
wander the woods. Roll d6 for an
encounter.
Oh, look at this. I've discovered a
ferocious badger.
All right. Now, the question, of course,
is uh what does that mean exactly?
And what that means is that we need to
go to the enemies page. We're being
attacked by a ferocious badger.
All right. So, we go to this page here
and we find our ferocious badger.
Ferocious badger has a strength of
three, does D4 damage, has six health,
and has 3d6 teeth that we can kick out
of its face once we've defeated it. So,
all right.
Let's see what we got here. All right,
so let's go through combat again real
quick. So, I'm going to make a stabiness
test. So, if we pop back to my character
sheet here, we can see that my stabiness
is plus one. So, we're going to go ahead
and make a stabiness check.
I've rolled a four, which is a five.
That defeats the monster strength, which
means that I get to deal damage. I have
a stabber, which does d4 damage. I've
rolled a one. So, the ferocious badger
uh which has six health has suffered one
hit point of damage.
That does not bode well for how this
fight is going to go. Um
so, uh now he I believe will now deal
damage.
No, wait, hang on. So, if you succeed,
you deal damage. If you fail, you take
damage instead. So, we only take damage
if we fail the test. So, I can just keep
trying to attack it. So, on this on this
round, the ferocious badger leaps out of
his burrow at my face and I stick my
little stabby sword up. Um, I did roll a
one on my damage, so I have to check to
see if the stabber breaks. Thank you for
reminding me, Aoplast. Uh, so let's go
ahead and do I rolled a five on the
check, so we The stabber has not broken.
It is kind of wedged in there kind of
tight, though. So, I'm going to try and
yank it to the side to get it out of
this ferocious Badger. So, I'm making
another stabiness test. I have rolled a
two plus one is three, which is equal to
the ferocious badger strength. So, I'm
going to deal damage again with my
stabber.
This time, I have rolled three. That's
going to reduce the badger to two hit
points. And so, I managed to I managed
to rip my blade out the side. There's a
gush of blood that causes the badger to
snarl in anger uh and come at me again.
It knocks me back on my back and is kind
of scratching at my chest. Um, I'm not a
big fan of that. So, I'm going to try
another check. I roll a six on my
stabiness check plus one is seven. So, I
deal some more damage. Hopefully, I'll
roll well and I do four damage. So, as
it scratches at my chest, I take my
stabber. I kind of flip it over into my
left hand and stab it into the side of
the ferocious badger's neck and then
pull towards me. And as I pull towards
me,
uh, a bunch of teeth are ripped out of
the of the badger's mouth and kind of
scattered down onto my face. Quite a few
of the badgers teeth are broken, but I
have managed to I managed to then roll
the badger off of me, and I pick up
little pieces of teeth, managing to find
nine full teeth among the badgers, uh,
among the among the broken teeth. And so
I will add those nine teeth to my teeth.
And uh
and there we go. So now I've got 18
teeth. My mouth is full of badger teeth.
And uh and we've managed to survive
the uh the woods here.
To the woods again. All right. So that
was our encounter. We fought a badger
here in the woods. Very very scary. Uh,
and we're going to kind of continue
moving south. Uh, at this point, uh,
this we we kind of look around inside
the the badgers, the badger's little
den, his hole. Uh, he seems very poor
other than his mouth full of teeth,
which he he has riches in his own way.
But we're going to push south. And if we
come down here to the south, uh, where
we are now standing, which we can see on
page, page three, uh, we are now in the
battlefield, which means we need to go
to page 11.
A clearing stands as a somber testament
to the great battle where the gnomes
crushed the goblin king's army. Bones of
the fallen and their shattered weapons
lie still li still lie scattered about.
A burial mound looms at its heart where
the goblin king's remains lie in tmbed.
So we can either scour the battlefield
for loot or we can visit the mound. I
feel like we have just set forth onto
our mighty quest to step into the shoes
left by the goblin king and lead our
people to greatness. So, I'm going to
head over to the mound. Uh, so I'm going
to head over to the mound.
Uh, and I I discover that there's a
ghostly gnome knight standing guard
there. Uh, I I do not have the symbol of
the human god. Uh, and so I cannot
banish him. I may have made a mistake. I
didn't know about the guard. Oh no. All
right. Well, let's let's go deal with
the uh let's go deal with the gnome
knight. Uh the gnome knight. Oh no.
[Music]
All right.
Check.
Yes, that is the one. All right. So, we
got a gnome knight here. Who's who's
ghost? He's a ghost gnome knight to
boop. I think we just used the gnome
knight. I think we just used the gnome
knight's stats. Oh, no. Oh, no. No. No.
No. All right. Um, great. Well, he's
strength six, so I'm sure this is going
to go really well for us. Uh, we'll go
ahead and give this a little We'll give
this a chance here real quick. Just
we'll give one we'll give this one shot.
Uh, oh, five plus one is six. I I
actually do I do hurt him uh with my
stabber. Yes. Uh, five four points of
damage with my stabber. That's good
news. Uh, so that's going to be uh nine.
So, oh, well, I'm I'm obviously winning
this. Let's keep going. Oh my goodness.
He's throwing the sword at me. I duck
out of the way. Oh my goodness. I rolled
a seven. Seven for the hit. I duck out
of the way and I stab him again. I stab
that ghost again for three more points
of damage. I think I can do it, guys. I
really do. He's down to two hit points.
We've got him. We've got him. I rip my
sword out and I try Oh no. I rip my
sword and I trip on the mound. Oh no. I
fall down and and the ghost stabs his
his spectral pipe down into me. He's
going to do a lot of damage. Oh no. Oh
no.
All right. All right. Haven't sword
isn't broken yet. Uh but then he does
his attack which is D6 plus one. So four
hit points of damage. I never felt pain
before. I'm not a fan of it. I'm not a
fan of the pain. But I've gotten so
close to dead. I really feel like we got
to push through this one. Come on, man.
Oh no, I failed again.
My sword doesn't break, but it's just
it's just battling like his his spectral
form is hardened up and and he's coming
for me. Oh no, that's that's four more
points of damage. Uh boy, I'm I'm in bad
shape, guys. I'm in real bad shape. I um
I would run away, but if I run away, I
take D4 damage, so I would die on
average. So, I think my best odds of
survival here are actually trying to
stab her again. Stab her again. Yes, I
hit him. I just need to not roll a one
on this damage roll. I just need to not
roll a one with that damage roll. And uh
Oh, no. I rolled a one. He's still
alive. And my sword might break. Oh god.
Oh no. My sword is still intact, but
I've got to try and hit him again.
Oh my goodness. All right, let's do it.
Here we go. Yes, I rolled a five on the
die. That's a plus one. I got a six.
That's a hit. I've killed him. I've
killed him. And I killed him. Come on.
Roll the dice, please. Oh no. I killed
him, but only by shattering my sword
into a thousand pieces. As the shards of
my sword uh go through the knight's
body, the ghost knight's form. It rips
his uh ectoplasm apart. There's a splash
of ectopplasm upon the hill. Uh and then
falling out of the ectoplasm,
falling out of the ectoplasm,
he uh the 11 teeth upon which his spirit
had been bound falls to the ground. And
I stick those ghost teeth right in my
mouth. Uh, which gives us a total of 29
teeth. Oh, my mouth is full of of of
Ivory. They will call me They will call
me the the the ghost Ivory. I am I am
Ghost Ivory the goblin. That's who I am.
Looks like he's also got a one in six
chance of having dropped his enchanted
gnome stabber. He did not drop his
enchanted gnome stabber. It vanished
along with the ghost as whole. So now I
have no weapon, just my fists. Ah, but I
I feel triumphant. Oof. I just wish I
had something to eat.
The stones of the mound come to life,
forming a guard coil, defeated to claim
the treasure. No. Oh, no. It's not over.
Everything is terrible here. I've made
terrible I have made terrible choices
and and they're coming home to roost
now. Let's go find our gargoyle. Where
is our gargoyle?
Where is our gargoyle? There's the
gargoyle. Strength six. That's great.
Eight hit points. Has no teeth. And
stabs only deal half damage. Well, it's
the good news is I don't have any
stabbers. All right. Well, I can't I
can't beat this gargoyle. I'm going to
have to try to run away, guys. And I
only have two hit points. I'm going to
take a D4 of damage as this gargoyle as
this gargoyle really wakes me up a
little bit as I turn to flee. And uh the
gargoyle has dealt three points of
damage. That's going to put me at
negative one health. And so uh the
short-lived the shortlived adventures of
Ghost Teeth the goblin have ended upon
the the mound of the uh the mound of the
goblin king. Um and his corpse will lie
in eternal honor to the memory of the
the goblin king.
I have I have Oh, wait. Hang on. Hang
on, hang on, hang on.
You're right. You're right. If the
damage will fling at three or four, I
slip away unscathed instead. I only
pretend to die on the mound and instead
I I crawl away. I crawl away in great
pain and and and head off.
Oh, thank goodness. Uh the garle the gar
girl thought I was dead and it left me
there on the mound. Everything is fine.
Um, I'm going to crawl away uh up
towards the road and hope I can get back
hope I can get back uh to the village
eventually. I'm hoping the road maybe is
safe. It probably is. So, we're probably
going to die in some other terrible way,
which is just the that's just the fate
of goblins. It's just the fate of
goblins that we all die in horrible
ways. All right, so we're heading to uh
we're heading to the the road. So, we've
headed up to this hex here. The road is
page seven. So, we'll head there next.
A wretched road carves the wood and
true. The wicked work of evil gnomes. A
sensible goblin knows to steer clear,
for there one might stumble upon cruel
men and coldhearted elves. All right, so
clearly I made a mistake coming to the
road. Uh maybe I didn't know the road
was here. Yeah, you didn't know the road
was here. Uh you thought you were just
going up into the woods away from the
mound and you discover this you discover
this terrible road that someone has cut
through the natural glory of your wood.
I've rolled a three for the encounter,
which is a notoriously mean goose is on
the loose from the village. The That's
the wrong page. Uh we're going to the
enemy's page, which is over here. The
notoriously mean goose is honking up a
storm.
Uh has a strength of two, D3 damage,
four health. On a roll of one, your
attack automatically fails. Such is the
goose's meanness. And it doesn't even
have any teeth to knock out. All right.
So, uh, that means the only way I'll
fail is if I roll a one on this d6. Uh,
I think I got to try and beat it. Uh,
because I'm still in pretty bad shape.
I rolled a seven on my attack roll. Uh,
I am down to my fists, though, which
means I'm only doing a D2 of damage.
Uh, so I do one point of damage, which
will reduce the notoriously mean goose
to three hit points. So, the goose comes
at me and I kind of like Yeah, there we
go. Boom. Oh, that kind of hurt my
knuckles a little bit on your hard beak
there. But if you want a box goose, here
we go. Uh, he punches the goose again,
this time for two damage. The goose
honks even more loudly and kind of flies
up in the air and is trying to swoop
down at my head. As it swoops down at my
head, I hit it one last time, kind of
reaching up and grabbing it and smashing
it down to the ground. Uh, the goose
with his stupid beak has absolutely no
teeth to give me. But we have managed to
survive uh survive this encounter. So,
let's go ahead. I don't like this road
at all. So, we're going to fly. We're
going to flee away from the road and
back up into the woods.
Uh, and as we flee back into the seeming
safety of the shadows beneath the trees,
the the um the mate of the ferocious bag
badger that we fought earlier has
unfortunately tracked us down. It's very
angry that we killed its mate. Uh, and
it has come for revenge. Uh, which is
unfortunate for us cuz I don't know if
we can defeat uh this badger now because
we no longer have our stabber. Um, ooh,
aoplast makes a very good point. So,
we're going to as we as we face off
against the ferocious badger, we flash
back to us roasting the mean goose and
feasting upon its flesh. Uh, and that's
going to give us plus one hit points,
which puts us back at uh three hit
points. Actually, we've gotten to
reverse that damage from the the failed
flight. Um, so that's excellent news.
That's excellent news. Uh, all right.
So, now we have three hit points
instead. So like we we will probably
still die here, but that that's just
that's how that's how it works. So we're
going to fight this badger. So this
badger is was waiting for us an ambush.
It's up in a tree as as I don't know
what it's doing up there. That's not
really how bad work, but this one's
really committed to getting me. I guess
I've rolled a five, which is enough to
deal damage to it.
One point of damage. Uh so it's got five
hit points left. Let me get my tracker
here. Five hit points left on the
badger.
As it drives me down to the ground, I
turn over and just flail at it with my
fists, hitting it again for another
point of damage. We're just we're just
beating it up. Uh as it tries to claw
its way through uh the rags I call
clothing. I hit it again, this time for
two points of damage. We're tumbling
around on the ground. I roll over on top
of it and just start trying to like I
pick it up and just start bashing it
into the ground uh furiously. Uh okay,
two plus one uh thankfully for my
stabiness is three. So I still hit it
here.
That's another two points of damage. So
my smashing it into the groundam
bam. Uh and then at the end I just I've
got this mouthful of ghost teeth. And so
I go down with my ghost teeth and I just
my ghost teeth bite into it without
actually biting into it. But then it
rips out its soul. H its little animal
soul. Uh and and it and it fades away as
its body falls limply in front of me. Oh
man, that was exhausting.
All right.
So, the first thing I'm going to do is
harvest its teeth. So, I get 12 teeth.
So, we we're making a My mouth is full
of these ghost teeth, though. I'm going
to put these teeth into a pouch in case
I need them later. Uh so, we're going to
go ahead. That's uh 12. 29 + 12 is is 41
teeth. We're at we're getting pretty
wealthy out here at least. Although I do
need to heal. Oh god, I need to heal so
badly. Oh, fortunately I can see the
village through the trees. So the
question is, do we think badger is
edible for goblins? Can I eat this? Can
I eat this badger? Uh, and I'm going to
say if you're desperate enough, you can
eat badger. So that's going to give us
another hit point.
Ah, that was exhausting. Oof. Okay. Uh,
I need to check the rules for something
real quick, which is should I have had
should I have recorded my maximum
health?
Uh, doesn't say. It's unclear. I don't I
think we have to assume that my original
health uh, which I think was was it 10?
It was 10. My original health of 10 is
is a maximum health. So, I'm shoot Can I
record that here?
Maybe.
Yeah, we'll do that. We'll say four out
of 10. That'll help us remember that.
Okay, good times. All right, I'm going
to go staggering up into my into the
village here. That was exhausting, guys.
It's a lot harder out there than I
thought it would be. Uh the tails made
it sound really easy. Okay, so
Oh, man.
Okay. Uh well, um so so I I need to Wow,
this is tricky. Um,
okay. So, I It's a little unclear. This
is This is useful. So,
uh, I'm going to shop at at fat at the
Fat Goblin store. I'm going to say that
I'm able to like when I shop, I can I
can do a whole shopping trip and buy
multiple things as long as I have the
teeth for them. So, I definitely want to
buy a better weapon because it's scary
out there. Uh, but the first thing I
want to buy is a stinky potion. So,
we're going to buy a stinky potion for
five teeth, putting me down at 36 teeth.
But, I do get a d4 of hit points back
from the stinky potion. I rolled a two
on that D4, so that's going to give me
that'll give me six six health. So, we
got six health there. I'm feeling a
little bit better. Uh, I'm going to go
ahead and buy another stinky potion.
Uh, that stinky potion. Apparently, the
efficacy of the potion uh is less each
time you take it in a 24-hour period. So
I uh So go so Ghost Teeth the goblin uh
only gets one hit point back that time.
So he's going to stop buying those. Now
we need to figure out weapons. Oh, how
many weapons you got here? So he's got a
stabber, a stabber on a stick, a big
stabber, and a mighty boom boom. Uh
let's go back and review what those do.
So mighty boom boom does d6 plus two
damage. Still uh still goblin quality
though, so it might break uh if we stab
something with it.
Uh stab on a stick is a d4 of damage,
but plus one on the attack. I don't
think I need the plus one on the attack
given how given I already have the plus
one on my stat. Big stabber is also a
d6. Can we afford the mighty boom boom?
The mighty boom boom would be 25 teeth.
That would be most of our teeth.
So the only teeth left to me would be
half a dozen ghost teeth, which would
and one real tooth. Five ghost teeth and
one real tooth to make sure I can eat.
But we're going to do it. We're going to
buy a mighty boom boom and mighty boom
boom. And the mighty boom boom is what
did we just say it was? It was
two d6 plus two damage. Uh
oops.
I like this. So d6 plus two because for
some reason the
the lines aren't working there. So we
need to add more equipment. I may do
some more stuff on the technical side of
things. My character sheet. Uh but that
should be fine for now. All right. Well,
guys, I um I'm so bored here in the
village. This village is the most boring
place I've ever been. Let's get out of
here. Uh you know what? We went um
we went south last time. Let's see if we
have a better plan this time. So, the
nomish villages to the north. Those
gnomes clearly scare the crap out of me.
They nearly killed me. It was
terrifying. H So, I think let's go ahead
and uh let's go let's head towards um
the witch's hut. Let's head to the
witches hut next. So, we're going to go
we're going to go down here. So, we got
to go through the woods. We're going
through the woods on the way to the
witch. We're going through the woods on
the way to a witch. The goblin woods are
still full of ancient trees stretching
skywards. But through this passage
through the woods, everything should be
fine. We're just heading through the Oh
no, there's a wolf. A rabid wolf. We can
either try to hide with a sneaky check
or we can fight. What do I know about
wolves? How bad are they exactly? Well,
a rabid wolf has five strength, d6
damage, and it has six hit points and
also has 4 d6 teeth. I think we can take
it. What do you guys think? Right. Like,
I've got I've got seven hit points. It
can't kill me on the first blow. And I'm
confident. I got my mighty boom boom,
which is it was twice as tall as I am.
And I'm going to I'm going to try and
smash this wolf as a racist towards me
with its frothing mu.
Uh, that's a seven on the attack roll.
That is higher than the five strength of
the rabid wolf. So, we're going to do
the D6 plus two damage.
Uh, I've done five damage.
Unfortunately, one short.
So, we smash our mighty boom boom down
upon him. And the wolf uh the wolf gets
gets heavily clipped by the by the big
heavy I'm assuming just kind of a big
mighty metal rod kind of thing smashing
down. Uh bones sickeningly crack in its
shoulder. Uh it it leaps back and kind
of whimpers once and then howls. Oh, I'm
kind of worried it's calling help. So,
I'm going to try and hit it again. Right
over the head this time. Another seven
on the attack roll. That's guaranteed
death. Seven more damage. So, I wield
back and just smash it across the whole
goblin side. Whole side of the wolf's
head just collapses in. Uh, let's see
how many teeth managed to survive the
mighty blow.
Well, I go and track down the spray of
teeth off to one side and and find 15
nice sharp wolf fangs uh in the in the
in the wreckage of it of its bloodied
body. Uh wolf meat, though just tastes
terrible. I can't eat it at all. It's
the worst day of my life. In fact, it
smells bad, too. And it's probably going
to attract other predators. And then
they're going to try. Ah, I make a run
for the witch's hut. Let's go.
All right. So, we head to the witch's
hut here. And that's going to take us
here to page
10.
An old hut sits at the edge of the
swamp, home to a creature feared by all
who dwell in the woods, an ancient witch
versed in primal magic. The matron tells
a cautionary tale, warning well- behaved
goblin welp that if they don't start
causing proper mischief, the witch will
turn them into toads and eat them.
All right. So, we can either try and
feed the witch. Uh, but we have nothing
to feed her. If I had anything to eat, I
would be eating it myself. Um,
so, uh, can't do that. So, we're going
to have to try and sneak into the hut
and rob the witch. Uh, so we need to
test our sneakiness and we need to get a
six. The bad news is
the bad news is uh I have a sneakiness
of negative one. So there's no way for
me to roll a six. So I'm I'm you know
what? I'm going to sneak in and steal
and steal her crown fragment. So I I
kind of sneak up to the hut. And I I try
to sneak in by walking through the door.
And it turns out she's she's sitting
she's sitting right there. Uh and and
what was Oh.
[Music]
Uh, okay. Well,
good times. All right. So, um, I've been
turned into a toad for the next three
hex's. In toad form, you must flee any
combat, automatically fail any
spelliness checks, and automatically
pass any sneakiness tests.
Oh, I think she's made a strategic
error.
All right. Well, let's go um let's go to
the let's let's hop into the swamp and
see what's up there. I think that's the
natural habitat of a toad, right? Uh so
the swamp is on page nine.
So this is our first hex as a toad. I'm
going to make a note just to make sure
we're tracking that.
And then we're going to head to the
swamp.
The fertile swamp is ripe with
deliciously foul smells and goblin
delicacies. Goblin youths flock here to
forage worms and hunt toads, though the
slimes prowling the depths ensure not
all return home. And we know from the
witch's hut that worms are flavorful.
Try to fish something out.
If you have a fishing, add wad one. If
you're a toad, add two.
I rolled a one. Oops. the muddy pool.
Oh, but um I'm totally so I go to three.
You reel in a snake. Try to charm it
with a spelliness or flee or fight.
Well, uh I have to flee. I can't use
spelliness, so I'm going to have to try
and So, I'll have to flee. I So, I hop
away from this nasty snake. And the
snake deals three points of damage to
me. Ow.
All right. You know what? I have a beef
with that witch. We're going back to the
witch's hut, which will be our second
second toad hex.
Remember the hood. Yes. Thank you,
Econoplast. Remember the hood.
It's a good thing you're here. It's a
It's a very good thing you're here.
Thank you. All right. So, we uh we hop
back. So, we we see we go into the
swamp. We see that it's just it's just
filled with snakes, and we decide that's
a bad idea. I I shouldn't have gone I
shouldn't have gone to the swamp. That
was a bad idea. So, I'm going to hop
back over to the witch's hut. All right,
back to the witch's hut. The hut of the
witch.
And the witch's hut is on 10.
All right, we're going to sneak in this
time. So, we're a toad. We automatically
passed the sneaky test. And we have
stolen a crown fragment. We did it. We
stole a crown fragment. Uh, yes. All
right. So, we have stolen the witch's
crown fragment. When we steal Why am I
talking like a goblin? I'm game master
mode. When we steal a When we steal a
crown fragment, uh we immediately return
to the goblin village
still as a toad technically, but we
immediately return to the goblin village
and can pick uh can pick one of the
following boons.
Um I don't think so. So, when rolling
teeth, you may reroll one die. That has
not proven to be super useful. Uh, but
we can pick one beast, one gnome, and
one monster. From now on, they only deal
half damage. Well, I did not like the
gargoyle, so I'm going to spend some
time training against training against
gargoyles.
And uh
yeah, I think I think that's the one to
go with. Yeah. Um it's tempting to maybe
increase some of the stats, but I think
actually making that Gargoyle easier to
fight is actually the way to go. So,
we're going to go with um
um the How do I describe that on the
character sheet here? Um
half damage is the advancement. Uh don't
really have space on the character sheet
at the moment to record which ones have
half damage. I'm going to do that
separately. So, we're going to say
gargoyle. Uh, I'm going to say
uh the rabbid wolf that we keep. The the
the woods are full of rabid wolves and I
don't I don't like them. And let's also
go ahead and
uh say gnome knights also will only deal
half damage to us. That will hopefully
give us a little bit of an advantage
against any gnome knights that we run
into uh in the future.
All right, but we are also in the
village. So, let me just double check
and make sure I didn't miss some of the
advancement there. Yes. All right. So,
we are in the village. So, we're going
to head back to the village here. And
now we can do more stuff here. We didn't
get a lot of teeth out there, but we I
definitely want some more hit points.
So, I'm going to grab one more stinky
potion.
Uh r three, which is just enough to get
us back up to our maximum hit points.
Uh, need to actually spend the teeth,
though. Thank you, fat goblin. We still
have our mighty boom boom.
Um, let's go ahead and buy one more
stinky potion.
I'm really enjoying this. I I It's It's
a fun little interaction. Uh, and a fun
little little cycle here. Just a fun
little little solo game. Um, and it and
it really is like you you could just
play this straight and just kind of
treat it as like a little simulator of
the goblin woods, but you can also kind
of get into it a bit and kind of use
these as little prompts for like
thinking about thinking about how things
are playing out.
All right, while uh while we're waiting
for people to come back from watching
all those ads, we got to figure out
where we're going next. Uh, I kind of
liked the um I kind of liked the swamp.
All
right. As a player, I'm just going to
review.
Interesting.
I'm trying to decide like I know. So,
there's there's definitely a thing in
the swamp there uh to get the crown
fragment. So there's a real risk of
doing that as a toad uh because you you
can get you have to run away from
everything.
In toad form, you must flee from any
combat, automatically fail uh any
spelliness test, and automatically pass
any sneaky tests. But uh despite the
despite the risk in that sense, having
the plus two in the swamp feels like
probably the best way to get the crown
fragment in the swamp, unless we can
find that fishing rod somewhere. So, I
am going to
uh I think I'm going to head down to the
witch's hut, get turned into a toad
again. Um and then we'll head up into
the swamp and see if we can find
She's really just a friendly old woman
when you think about it, honestly. Uh
yeah. Yeah. So, we'll head down to the
witch's hut again and then we'll head up
into the swamp and see if we can we can
as a toad we can sus out where the um
where that fragment is. And then if we
can build up a little bit more reserves
and so forth, then I think we can go
back down and try and tackle tackle that
gargoyle
uh down at the mound again. So, we head
down towards the witch's hut again,
heading to uh X
uh page seven for the woods. As we pass
beneath the ancient trees stretching up
towards the sky
six.
All right. Uh so I find two little lost
children wandering through the woods. Uh
if I have a pie, they would follow me,
but they don't. So, we both kind of
and um
I knock out nine teeth uh from the
little boy before they go scurrying off
and running away into the woods. Okay.
Well, that was scary. Where'd they even
come from?
Okay. Well, let's push on.
Uh great. So, we're going to head down
into the witch's hut
right there.
myself where that is. Page 10.
Uh, all right. Let's um let's sneak in
there again. So, we sneak in again. We
automatically fail because I don't have
the sneakiness test. Uh, and I'm turned
into a toad for three hexes. So, we'll
restart our toad marker. This is
perfect. Honestly, she's just a nice old
woman when you get to know her. And then
we head north. She's just got a thing
for toads. We'll head north into the
swamp for our first toad hex.
And the swamp, I believe, was on nine.
So, we're back in this fertile swamp
that's ripe with deliciously foul smells
and goblin delicacies. So, as a toad,
we're going to add two to our to our uh
check here. So, Dix not rolling great.
Um
All right. Well, uh I found a plump
toad. I can devour it to restore D4 or I
can set it free. Uh, well, I'm already
at max health, so I'm going to free I'm
going to free the toad. Goodbye, toad.
Good luck. Uh, the toad was actually
stuck in like So, there's these there's
these plants in the swamp. Actually, I
probably should have thought of these
before I decided to turn into a toad and
come back here again, but there's these
there's these places in the swamp where
um there's these places in the swamp uh
with these big uh there's these big
flowers and they look really pretty, but
they they actually shoot out like this
tongue-like thing and then they can drag
small animals back in. Uh not really a
problem for goblins actually great
because you can actually come they
digest very slowly, so you can pry open
the flowers and you can rip out whatever
it happens to be half digested in there.
It it makes for a delicacy called
kajnak. And kashnack is is is how this
meat is super soft in the the um uh the
the the the digestive juices. The
digestive juices of this of this flower.
Uh it's just kazak. Oh, just thinking
about it makes my little toad mouth
water. But the problem is now I'm a
toad. So I could get caught by one of
those things. Oh, I didn't think this
through at all. It'll be fine. All
right. All right, I'm going to make a
note in my inventory here that I freed a
toad because I know that might that'll
come in relevant later. All right. Uh,
so we're going to keep moving on. We're
going to go to another swamp hex here.
We'll go up here. Uh, so it's our second
toad hex.
And
I rolled four again. I found another
toad. Oh, there's so many toads. Let's
go ahead and free this one, too. I freed
two toads now. This is these toads are
having a bad day, I guess. All right,
let's um
uh let's go up here. All right, and
four plus two is six. Oh, look at this,
guys. There's a there's a rotten carcass
here. It's got D4 tasty worms on it. And
uh there's one worm on it. It's
specifically one worm. So, I found one
worm. We're going to tuck that away for
later as I poof back into goblin form.
Oh, now I'm goblin again. All right.
Well, uh, not a huge fan of this. Um,
I could go back to the witch's hut
again, but I think, you know, attention
deficit disorder. I think I'll have to
go back there a different day. Let's
just go up here. Oh god, there's a road
up here, too. This is the worst thing
ever. What are these gnomes doing? Why
are there roads everywhere now?
Oh, this wretched road that's carving my
forest in Twain.
And there's a low-level adventure on
this road. Let's find out what type of
low-level adventure it is. Uh,
adventures are on page 17. So, I need to
roll a d4 to determine its class.
Two is a rogue. Okay, so their base is
strength five, D6 damage, seven health,
but the rogue is going to be strength
six, dealing d6 plus one damage and have
eight health. If they roll a six on
damage, they roll an extra damage die.
They carry contraband. If you defeat
them, roll for treasure as if you're in
the caves.
All right. And then let me see. So this
guy's this guy is going to be a six. So,
I have a with my plus one, I'll have a
one in three chance of hitting him. If I
hit him, I'll do D6 plus two damage,
which is very unlikely to do that. But
he has contraband. It's so shiny. It's
so lovely and shiny and nice, and I want
it. I want it so badly. Oh no. Uh, okay.
Let's um
let's run away. Run away. This is a
terrible idea. I should Ah,
okay. It's fine because of the dirty
hood, which I finally remembered a
counter plast. I roll the four on my
runaway damage and instead I take no
damage and I just slip away into the
woods. So I come out of the woods, I
look down, I see this this road, and
there's a really there's a creepy guy
with a hood and like a bow and arrow and
a name badge that says Robin Hood. Don't
like him. He's a creep. Uh we're going
to we're going to head back into the
swamp. Oh boy, that was a close call.
Did not like that at all. Okay, so we
passed through the swamp again. No
longer rolling at plus two.
Um because we're no longer a toad. So I
rolled a three and I've gotten a snake.
Uh venomous snake. Uh I'm pretty sure I
can take this guy. So we're going to go
ahead with a strength of three. I rolled
a six. Uh I'm going to do d6 plus two
damage. Four damage. So he's still up.
uh hit him again and kill him. So the
snake the snake kind of comes slithering
out of the the underbrush as we pass
through the swamp. Uh and I just bash it
over the top of the head. Now you don't
want to eat you don't want to eat these
uh because uh they taste terrible uh
from all from from the They're just bad.
Swamp snakes. You don't eat you don't
eat venomous swamp snakes. It's no good.
So uh we won't we won't take this
corpse. I'll just I'll toss into the
nearest Kazak flower.
Let it digest for a while. Pay back for
freeing all those toads from them. Uh,
okay. So, now the question is where do
we want to go? I think let's go ahead
and go back and see if we can actually
conquer the mound at the battlefield.
So, we're going to head south into the
woods to start making our way back
towards the back towards the
battlefield. Uh, in these particular
woods. All right. So, you know, we
fought that badger and we killed it. And
then the badger's mate came and we
killed that. Well, you're not going to
believe this, but those badgers had
kids. And the kids are all so pissed off
at me. Oh, man. Okay, so we got a
ferocious Batcher here. Strength three,
D4 damage, six health. All right. Well,
with my big heavy
big boom boom, uh, this this this angry
ferocious badger child comes out of the
woods and I just go uh bash. Also, I
forgot to grab teeth from the snake. So,
I've got three snake teeth and now I've
also got
3d6
goblin uh badger teeth. It's a pretty
young badger, so it's teeth aren't all
that good. There's only like eight of
them. But with the snake fang, I have
now 29 teeth, so that's fine. O man,
this the this [ __ ] Batcher clan,
right? Just the worst. Let's go down
here.
All right, so we're continuing on
through the woods here.
Oh no. Um, so I'm going through the
woods kind of lamenting about the the
badger. I stumble across a gnome knight
who is standing over a goblin's corpse.
Uh, this [ __ ] That was that was
Tabitha. Tabitha was great. She was just
minding her own business out here
collecting mushrooms for the village and
this [ __ ] killed him. We're
taking him down.
All right, so the goblin uh that's the
wrong page. Goblin knight, excuse me,
gnome knight uh gnome knight has
strength six, d6 plus one damage uh and
nine health. He is protected by sturdy
armor, goblin quality weapons from
breaking after each step. So this is
this is risky with my mighty boom boom.
My mighty boom boom might break and then
I will be very I'll be boom boom sad.
But here's the thing is that uh I he
only does half damage to me. So we're
going to give this a shot.
Uh so he has a strength of six. I need
to roll a five or a six on the die with
my plus one to hit him, which I have
done. So now uh D6 plus I do d6 plus two
damage to him. 3 plus two is five
damage. So he takes nine. So, in rage at
Tabitha having been slain,
Ghost Teeth the Goblin races forward and
I said five. Yes. Uh, races forward and
smashes the Gnome Knight over the back
of the head. Checking for weapon
breakage. It does not break. Uh, but the
Gnome Knight clashes over the back of
the gnome's head. He's all armored up,
right? He just kind of like turns slowly
and stares at me. And I go, "Ah!" and
swing the mighty boom boom again.
Missing this time. So, he's going to do
damage to me. I'm checking weapon
damage. Weapon breakage first. Did not
break. He swings weapon to me. O. Okay,
so he's going to do six points of
damage, which is hald. So, we're going
to go down to uh seven dam seven hit
points.
Um,
and uh he just he just his sword slashes
across my chest. Blood begins pouring
down from this giant gash. Green blood
pouring down over my chest as I swing my
boom boom stick back and my M mighty
boom boom back and forth. Mighty boom
boom hits on this attack. So checking
weapon breakage does not break. I deal
four points of damage which is enough.
So he does opens a nasty slash on me,
but I I'm just
And uh this huge metal mighty boom boom
is just is just caving in the sides of
his armor every time I hit him. Boom.
Boom. And so his armor actually gets
like caved in and he starts coughing up
blood and sags down to his knees. I take
one last swing like a big baseball bat
and just knock him across the forehead
and he goes twisting down and falls onto
the uh the dead leaves for forming the
uh the floor of the the forest here.
Well, that was really scary. I'm sorry,
Tabitha, but I I am gonna need to take
all of your teeth
to pay for potions because I just keep
getting messed up out here. All right,
so first I'm 26 of Tabitha's teeth that
I take. So I take eight of Tabitha's
teeth. That's going to be 37 teeth. Then
I'm going to go back to um
Oops, wrong document, Justin. Then we'll
go back to uh the Gnome Knight here. The
Gnome Knight has 3d6 teeth.
uh which I rolled 14 teeth. That's a
very good roll. So that's going to give
me 51 teeth total. And then there's a
one in d6 chance that he drops a gnome
stabber while fleeing. He did not. Uh I
hit his sword so hard it bent in half.
So it's useless. It's useless.
Uh and
that'll do it. Now we have a tough
choice though. That that do I I was
heading down towards the battlefield.
and I didn't make it um without getting
hurt pretty badly um
so do I do I try that or do I go back to
the village? I think I got to go back
home and and and rest up a bit. So,
let's let's head back up and then we'll
try this again hopefully without running
into a night in the middle of the
forest.
All right, back to the woods again.
Oops. Back to the woods again.
Uh oh my god, there's so many badgers
out here. Uh, another badger, this time
the the the second son of the badger
clan. Oops, I need to got a 16. Uh, has
approached me again. So, just nothing
but badgers. Badgers and gnomes in these
woods. I don't like it out here.
Anything but a one will hit.
And with I'm just there another badger
comes racing out. I'm just I'm so tired.
Whap. And I just whap the badger. And
the badger goes down in a single hit.
That's going to give me 10 more teeth.
10 more badger teeth as I head back into
town. And uh
Ghost Teeth returns triumphant
triumphantish triumphantish to the
village.
Oh my goodness, that was rough. All
right, the matron doesn't really like
me, so we're not we're not going to do
that. Uh we're going to go back and do
some more shopping here. So we got 61
teeth to play with. That feels like a
lot of teeth. I'm going to be honest
with you. Um, I could just buy a crown
fragment for 40.
Is that the way to go?
Maybe, but I think I need some stinky
potions first. So, I'm going to buy a
stinky potion and drink it for one hit
point. I'm going to do that again
for two more. So, that puts me back at
full health.
Uh, down 10 teeth.
I'm tempted to buy I'm actually tempted
to buy a second Mighty Boom Boom just in
case the first one breaks on
on somebody. So, I'm going to do that.
Uh Mighty Boom Boom
Times two.
Uh that's going to leave me with 26
teeth. That feels like a decent number
of teeth to work with. Uh so, let's go
ahead and do and do that.
Yeah. Comast asked, "Annome nights,
remotely edible or goblin court." Said,
"I would never eat Tabitha. How dare
you?" Unless I was like really hungry
and then you know Yeah. And and gnome
flesh. My mom told me that if you eat a
gnome, you turn into a gnome. They're
terrifying things, man. They aren't even
edible. They're some sort of like that's
how I heard that's how gnomes reproduce
is they just they send one of themselves
out to be devoured by animals in the
forest and then all the animals turn
into gnomes. Terrifying. Terrifying
creatures. Don't like them at all. Oh my
goodness. Okay. So anyway, terrifying.
All right. So let's go ahead and head
back out into the forest. We are going
to get that crown fragment out of that
out of that uh battle mound if it's the
last thing we do. And it might be. It's
very scary out here. All right, passing
through the forest again.
We have found a mushroom. We will uh
save it for later. So, we'll add a
mushroom to our
to our tally here.
And that's all we got there. So, we'll
continue heading south back to the
battle mound, which is on the
battlefield rather, which is on page 11.
So, here at the battlefield, uh, for
those just joining us, there is a
clearing that stands as a somber
testament to the great battle when the
gnomes crushed the goblin king's army.
Bones of the fallen and their shadow
weapons still lie scattered about, and
there's a burial mound looming at its
heart with the goblin king's remains lie
in tuned. So, we could scour the
battlefield for loot. Uh,
but what I'm going to do is visit the
mound. So, uh, we are fighting a gnome
knight.
Now, we could maybe make the call that
the that we defeated this gnome knight
previously, but that was several days
ago. So, I think the ectoplasm has
reformed into the ghostly gnome knight
defender again. Uh, I'm not going to I I
don't have the symbol of the human god,
so I can't try to banish him. So, I will
have to face him in battle. So, let's go
ahead and get back to our gnome knight
page here.
I'm just going to kind of cross our
fingers. These guys are tough, but I
think we got him. I think we can get him
with our full health this time. And a
mighty boom boom. Mighty boom boom
misses. Oh crap.
Uh, he deals maximum damage. Three
points of damage. Not quite maximum,
maximum damage. Uh, and remember because
we we collected him uh we trained
against his his very tactics, we only
take half damage from him. So, we try
again. I got to get past him, man. Let
me in. I missed again. That's not good.
Uh, okay. He only does one point of
damage this time. That's good. All
right. And then, you know what? We're
going to take him, though, man. Uh, got
him this time. We got you this time. We
got you on the run. That's seven points
of damage. Uh, no. Wait, wait. That's
eight points of damage. Roll to six plus
two from the boom boom. So, that's He's
only got one hit point left. Let's see
if Mighty Boom Boom stayed intact.
It did not. So, I smash through this
ghost and rip ectoplasm out its side.
But the ectopplasm is acidic now and it
melts through my boom boom. And
fortunately, we bought a second boom
boom. You son of a [ __ ] And I pull out
my other boom boom. Here we go. You
ghost bat. Oh god, no. I I didn't I
didn't do well. Uh he Oh no. He He deals
damage. A lot of damage. Down to three.
I'm going to drink my stinky potion. Oh
man. So, let's see how that that goes.
We put hit points back. That's enough
for me to stay in the fight just a
little bit longer. Oh god. Come on, man.
Yes, we did it. We killed that ghost.
He's down. Oh, man. That was terrifying.
Battlefield. All right. Uh, he still
counts as a gnome knight. So, we still
get
uh we still get the 3d6 teeth from him.
Whoa. Okay. Uh that's great. 16 teeth
from him. That's going to put us up at
42 teeth. And then
he also has a one in6 chance of dropping
his spectral gnome stabber, which he
does not. It was part of him and becomes
ectoplasm.
Do we dare to face the gargoyle? We have
faced him before, so we know what his
stats will be. So, let's go ahead and
take a peek at him. So, we have this
gargoyle.
Strength of six. We got a roll of five
or six to hit him. He only has eight hit
points, but he does do d6 plus two
damage. Now, we also selected him as a
favorite enemy. So, the good news is
that he also will only be doing half
damage, but that means he could do as
much as four damage in one hit. So, I
think we're okay.
I think we're okay to face him for at
least one round and then we might have
to run away in terror. Uh, it's a little
bit risky, particularly since we've used
our potion now. Uh, but we'll have to
fight through that damn ghost again if
we don't do it. So, we're going to face
off against this gargoyle. Here we go. I
don't know why you're here, but you got
to go away, man. This place is for
goblins only.
And I rolled a one, which means there's
a risk that uh my boom boom is
immediately broken it. Um hang on, let
me double check the breakage rolls.
Got to double check that. Yeah. Okay.
So, I'm like, here we go. I take my
second mighty boom boom and I smack him
and the boom boom shatters as I smack
the hard stone skin of the of the
gargoyle. And uh so now all my mighty
boom booms are gone. Uh so this did not
this did not go well. This This was
probably a mistake. I'm going to be
honest with you. Uh he's going to go
ahead and and retaliate with D6 plus two
damage. World of five. That's seven. So
half damage. Um does it say round up or
round down on the advancement there? Uh
doesn't say um I'm going to say round
down. I'm going to say let's say round
up. It's probably round up. All right.
All right, so he does seven, which means
he does four points of damage, dropping
me to two, which means I run away from
my shattered remnants of my weapons. Uh,
this could go. Oh, yes. Yes, I got I
know I've got a tasty worm. Eat the
worm. Eat the worm. Slurp it down as I
run, which puts me at three headpoints,
which is enough that I can't die on the
flight attempt at least. I rolled a to
three. So, I slip away and the gargoyle
can't find me as I slip away from the
battlefield and back into the wards. I
don't like that battlefield. It feels
like we should be doing better there.
You know, Dustin, it's terrifying. The
whole place is terrifying. So, we slip
back into the woods. And oh my god, it's
another badger. Ah, this badger. I
should not have anchored these badgers.
These badgers are so pissed off at me.
It's not even funny how pissed off these
badgers are.
All right. So, the question is, do I
dare face off against this badger?
Without my mighty boom boom, it'll
probably take a couple of hits. It will
definitely take a couple of hits to kill
it.
So, I can't I got to run away. Bloody
badgers. So, I'm running away.
Rolled a three again, which means that
due to my dirty herd, I slip away
before. So, I come What actually happens
is I come through the woods and I see
this badger sniffing around trying to
follow my trail and find me. Uh, but I
spotted ahead of time and kind of take a
wide circle around it. Stumbling back
into the goblin village.
That was exhausting. I can't believe
that happened. Oh, that it should have
gone so much better. I do still have 42
teeth, though. All right. Well, here's
the thing. So, um, I need a potion. At
least one potion. Probably several. I'm
going to go ahead and eat this mushroom
I have. That's That's another hit point.
I'm going to drink a potion
for three more hit points.
That puts me at 37 teeth. One more
potion for two hit points. That's going
to have to be good enough cuz then I'm
going to I'm going to go ahead and spend
everything except my ghost teeth and my
and my one and one other tooth. Going to
spend all of that on getting another
mighty boom boom.
Uh cuz I just need
uh Yeah. And if I'm going to survive
here, I feel like I need that weapon. I
need I need our mighty boom boom. Uh
very powerful, very important to have
that.
Okay, great. All right, so what we're
going to do,
we've been going on adventures for
several days. We're going to take a
short break. Uh we're going to take a
short break, kind of just rest up in the
village. Maybe let these aching bones
rest just for a little while and then
we're going to continue our adventures
in uh in in three to five minutes uh
when I come back. Five minutes later.
>> Welcome back to Goblin. Goblin is a solo
tabletop game about a goblin's life by
Roch Koshinski uh Roshinski. Uh and we
are giving it a shot. The game is coming
out as a Kickstarter in English this
fall. Um, Roshchek met me at tal talked
with him at Pircon in Poland about this
earlier this summer. Um, and we've been
kind of making our way through this
adventure. We are playing a goblin who
is currently known as Ghost Teeth
because he has stuffed a bunch of teeth
from a ghost into his mouth.
Uh, Ghost Teeth is searching for the
seven crown fragments that belong to the
broken crown of the Goblin King. If he
can assemble all the the fragments, he
will become the new goblin king and be
able to lead his people into a bold,
brave new era. Um, at the moment, we've
collected one crown fragment, having
stolen it from a witch while turned into
a toad. Um, and we are currently aware
of one other fragment which exists down
here at the battlefield, but it is
guarded by both a a ghost guard who
keeps reforming and also a gargoyle. And
so far we have not been terribly
successful at making our way uh into
uh into into the the mound of the goblin
king, the burial mound of the goblin
king where a a fragment of the crown
exists. Uh we spent quite a bit of
effort uh getting to a point where we
could
uh say that uh and it went poorly. Um,
we had purchased two mighty boom booms,
uh, big heavy goblin weapons. Uh, and
one of them got burned up in the acidic
ectoplasm of the ghost, and the other
one shattered on the thick hide of the
gargoyle, and we had to go fleeing for
our lives, barely making it back to the
village. We have, however, swallowed
down a number of stinky potions, rested
overnight, and are now ready to go back
out again. However, we are not equipped
well enough uh in my opinion to go
attempt that battlefield mound again. We
could head down to the battlefield and
just kind of scout around. There's some
loot on the battlefield we haven't
really explored. Um or uh we could go
over and try exploring the cave. Uh we
could go to the gnomish village or we
could go to the wizard's tower. Three of
those places we haven't been yet. And
I'm going to head up to the Nomish
village. Those gnomes have been
persecuting us for too long. Let's go
see what they're building up there. Keep
building roads and stuff. So, to get to
the goblin village, we're going to have
to cross the road. So, we'll head up to
the road first here.
Uh, a wretched road cars the woods in
two. The wicked work of evil gnomes. A
sensible goblin knows to steer clear of
them. Well, that doesn't apply to us, I
guess. For them one there one might
stumble upon cruel men and cold-hearted
elves. We tried to cross the road. Uh,
we have stumbled upon a gnome guard who
is patrolling the road.
Uh, gnome guards have a strength of
five, d4 plus one damage seven. Now, we
are practiced against gnome knights
which means we take half damage from
gnome knights but not against gnome
guards unfortunately. Uh,
but he does have a stabber which looks
real nice. We're going to try and we're
going to try and take him on. We have
plus one to our attack. So, we're
rolling a d6 plus one, hoping to get a
five or better. So, 50/50 shots. We have
hit him. We have a mighty boom boom,
which is this big heavy metal club.
We're going to smash him across the face
for D6 plus two damage. Fortunately,
I've rolled very poorly. I've only
rolled three damage here. So, I come
running out of the woods
trying to smash him over the back of the
head before he notices me. Uh,
unfortunately, I kind of trip and fall.
And while the big boom boom does kind of
clip his back and cause him to stumble
forward half a foot, uh, he whirls
around from the ground prone. I take a
swing kind of like wild swing with my
boom boom as I try to scramble back to
my feet. I did manage to hit him again.
Uh, this time for uh, six damage, which
is enough to finish him off. So, as he
comes in to try and stab at me, I take
just kind of a wild swing up from my
position on the ground and catch him on
the chin. his chin bumps up. Uh teeth
come broken teeth come flying out of his
mouth as he falls backward uh onto the
road uh with blood trickling out of his
mouth. And I head over there and finish
the job of cleaning out his mouth of
teeth,
claiming five teeth from him. That's
going to give me 12 teeth. And then
there's a one in six chance that he will
drop a gnomish stabber, which I he has
in fact dropped a gnomish stabber. So
let's go check out the gnomish stabber
stab block. So a nomish stabber is 1d6
plus one damage. Not as much as the
mighty boom boom, but it also doesn't
have a risk of breaking. So I'm going to
continue wielding my mighty boom boom,
but I will take my nomish stabber here
uh for d6 plus one damage. So, we'll
keep using the mighty boom boom till it
breaks again. But it's nice to have a
reliable weapon on backup at this point.
Uh, that means we have successfully
crossed the road as well. So, we'll be
heading up into the goblin village.
Uh, goblin village is on page eight. At
the edge of the forest, where gilded
grain fields sway under the sun, lies
the village of the vile gnomes. These
cruel and heartless creatures sneer at
goblin customs and way of life, and
anyone who dares defy their so-called
civilized laws is swiftly impaled on
pitchforks. It's high time someone
finally taught them a lesson. So, we can
engage in mission and mischief or
attempt to plunder the mar's chest. Uh
if you look down at the Mar's chest, we
can see that
we can skip past and get into the Mar's
chest into the Mar's area more easily if
we have done mischief in the village.
So I don't think we can really So to get
into the So I have to beat a gnome guard
at the pars
don't actually have binoculars, but I if
I hold my my hands up like this, it
helps. I have to be a gnome guard.
Tricky. And then I'd have to try and
sneak past the vigilant mare um with a
sneakiness of five. Now, unfortunately,
our sneakiness is at negative one. We
are we are a stabby king, but otherwise
kind of crappy as a goblin. Um mind your
tongue. I'm great. Uh so, we're probably
not going to be able to sneak past him.
So, this this is a very risky way of
doing this. So, I think we want to do
instead is looks like if we complete all
of the mischief,
um
then
everyone will be looking for us in the
village. We can just walk in and loot
his chest. So, it's going to take us
several passes here uh to do the
mischief because we have to can only do
one of them at a time and then we come
back to the village. But, let's see how
far we can get with this. So, engage in
mischief. If you fail, face a gnome
villager. Each act of mischief can be
performed only once. Uh looks good on
the list. We're going to try and pose as
the tooth fairy and swindle the kids out
of 1d6 teeth. Uh we need to pass a three
spelliness check. Our spelling this is
also at negative 1. So I need to roll a
four or better on the d6. Here I rolled
a three. So 3 minus 1 is two. So I have
failed. So I have un So I'm like, "Kids,
come here. I just want I want your
teeth." Uh, and the kids run screaming
off into the village, little gnome gnome
children. And then we just recently
spawned from probably like toads eating
gnome flesh as we established earlier.
Um, and a gnome villager comes running
out of a house nearby, uh, screams at me
and comes yelling at my face. The gnome
villager has a strength of three d4
damage and five health. So as it as the
villager charges towards me. Um with my
plus one stabiness, I need to roll a two
or better. So anything but a one. I
rolled a two. Uh which is plus one
three. So we're going to do d6 plus two
damage. So there's a good chance I can
take this guy out in one hit, which I
do. So this gnome villager comes, hey,
leave my kids alone or whatever that
civilized goblygook is. and I just smash
him across the face with my uh with my
mighty boom boom and he goes down. I
quickly scavenge five teeth from him and
then go scurrying off uh into the nearby
woods.
So, for those of you just joining us, uh
we can only do one activity in each hex
each time we're there. Then we have to
move on. So, we're going to run off into
the woods and hide for a while. Uh
assuming there's nothing in the woods
going to cause us any problems.
Uh, unfortunately, as soon as we go into
the woods, uh, the gnomes release one of
their rabid wolves. Apparently, the
gnomes are breeding rabid wolves to
attempt to destroy the ecology here in
the forest. It's really terrible. They
release one of their rabid woods to come
chasing after me. I can attempt to force
sneakiness to hide or I'll have to
fight. Um,
so rabid wolves kind of nasty. 50-50
shot at hitting them, but they do d6
damage. I do have them as a favorite
opponent. So, you know what? You know,
these wolves need to die. These wolves
need to die.
Unfortunately,
not this one. He takes me by surprise
before I can uh before I can get around.
I rolled a uh two, so I failed on the
stabbing check. He the wolf manages to
pounce on me. Oh man, I rolled a six on
the damage die. Fortunately, as I
mentioned, we trained specifically
against these wolves in in goblin
adventurer camp and so goblin quester
camp. And so we're going to we're going
to take three damage from that. That's
going to knock us down to six hit
points. That is unfortunate. Um I've got
no choice there. He's got me pinned to
the ground. I try and bring the mighty
boom boom around. Oh no, I rolled a one.
So first off, uh my mighty boom boom
might have broken. It did not
thankfully, but I can't get it around.
He's got my arm kind of pinned and he
deals one more point of damage to me.
His teeth kind of smiling down around
me. I really hope I don't get rabies. I
got to get out of here. Uh, I managed to
fail again. Uh, he Come on. Uh, he does
one more point damage. We're just kind
of like locked in this death match on
the ground as he's whittling away at me
here. Oh no, I missed again. Terrible
rolling. He does one more point of
damage. Just just gnawing at me.
Ah, f. I hit him. I hit him. Got to roll
well enough now to hopefully take him
out. I managed to free up my arms. Uh,
only three damage on him. So, he's down
to three hit points, but I do manage to
roll away from him and get back to my
feet. He's kind of like pacing and
circling around me, snarling at me. I
take another big swing and hit him
again. And this time I smash him across
the face and I just keep hitting him
over and over again until he doesn't get
up anymore. Stupid, stupid walk with all
of your delicious looking teeth. 15 of
those teeth. I'm going to grab all those
teeth. Put me up at 32 teeth. That's
pretty good. I like that. Uh, okay. So,
um
Ouch. Uh, I think we need to Hey,
Sultan's ass Games. Thanks for following
the Alexandrian here. He's a great guy.
He's a friend to goblins everywhere. Uh
thank you very much, Salt and Sass
Games. It's great to have you here as a
member of the community. Um we are going
to um having taken a bunch of damage
from that wolf down to three hit points,
we're going to have to try and sneak
back across the road and into our
village again. So, we're going to head
down to the road here.
As we try to cross the road,
we find D3 onions that fell from a cart.
This is a great day. In fact, there's
three of them. So, I've got onions times
three. That's excellent news. We're
going to hold on to those. And then
we'll head back into the goblin village.
I got to track mischief somewhere, too.
Hang on.
>> Five minutes later.
>> Back in the village,
and we need to stock up. So, I'm gonna
I'm gonna spend some money on stinky
potions.
Each stinky potion costs four. Each
stinky potion costs five teeth and heals
D4 hit points. So, my first one's going
to heal four. That's great. Um, and drop
me down to 27. Uh, we're going to do one
more of those. Another four hit points
heal. So, that's going to max us out.
And I'm going to I'm going to buy one
more so we have one for the road because
the the potions can be literal
lifesavers out there. So, we have an
extra potion that drops us down to 17
teeth. I don't think there's anything
else we need to buy right now. Uh, I am
actually looking at trying to buy a
crown fragment here because getting an
advancement on stabiness, I think, would
actually really help this character
build and let us hit things harder and
faster. But for right now,
uh, we're going to head back up into the
forest, excuse me, actually crossing the
road, rather, crossing the road back to
the Nomish village. So, let's see what
happens on the road. Uh, a notoriously
mean goose has broken loose from the
gnomish village and is chasing us down
the road. Uh, let's go ahead and check
out those goose stats.
Goose stats are terrible. They're easy
to kill, but they have no teeth. It's
just mean. So, uh, anything but a roll
of one will hit this goose. I've rolled
a four. That's a hit. Uh, I'm still
using the boom boom, so it's going to be
a d6 plus two. That's seven points of
damage. Uh, so this goose comes chasing
me down the road, but I'm just sick of
these geese. So I just smash the g goo
goose with my boom boom and leave it
dead in the road. Actually, no, wait.
I'm taking the goose. I want to cook
this goose. One goose. We'll cook this
goose later and have a good meal. And
that lets us head up into back into the
goblin village. No, excuse me, the
gnomish village, uh, which is on page
eight. We're going to do some more
mischief. We're just heading down the
list. We're going to steal a pie. Hey,
we got to pass a three sneakiness test.
Our sneakiness is minus one. So, uh, we
we just even though we're bad at this,
we're going to pie just smells so good.
It's a goose pie. I rolled a four. Minus
one is three. That's a pass. I've stolen
a pie. And I go scampering off into the
woods with my delicious pie, which also
means that my mischief
now includes
a stolen pie.
[Music]
Fantastic.
All right.
Uh we go I'm going to scamper off into
the woods. And in the woods we find
in the woods we find
a gnome knight standing over another
goblin corpse. You son of a [ __ ] These
goblin these gnome knights are the
worst. All
right, gnome knights. We need to get to
the gnome knights here.
Gnome knights. All right, so we are
trained against gnome knights. They do
half damage against us. Um,
he's got a lot of teeth,
but I don't want to fight him. We're
going to Oh, I went into the woods. Hang
on. I looked at the wrong table. Never
mind. There's not a gnome knight here. I
lied to you all. No, it is a gnome
knight. Never mind. I was right the
first time. Uh, okay. Plus 2d6 teeth if
you defeated. You know what? Let's Let's
go for him then. Because with the plus
2d6 teeth, this is a valuable plus. We
need to avenge our comrades. Connor was
a noble was a noble goblin. He was just
up here trying to find some worms and
this this [ __ ] killed him. Uh
all right, let's take a swing at this
guy. 50-50 shot hitting him. We hit him
and
that is seven points of damage. It was
It was a guard, right? I'm
misremembering this completely.
No, it's a gnome knight. I'm on I'm
looking at the wrong guy. Hang on. More
hit points. Gnome Knight still hit him.
Uh but did uh seven points of damage, so
we still got two hit points left. So
that guy's like carving up my goblin
friend for food. When I come up and
smash him across the back of the head,
he goes stumbling forward and I try to
follow up. Oh, actually I need to check
and make sure that my
uh goblin quality weapon doesn't break.
It did not. Uh, so now I try to follow
up and smash him over the head again.
Uh, this time with the uh with the
gnomeish stabber that we have that isn't
vulnerable to his armor. Um, I miss
as I try and change my weapons. I kind
of fumble a little bit. He returns and
hits me for three points of damage.
That's after the having. Uh, so I try
and like switch to the stabber to get
through his armor. Uh, and he whirls
around and cuts deeply into my arm. I
kind of curse curse knock and stumble
away. Swinging back with the uh stabber.
Uh missing unfortunately. He'll hit me
again again for three points of damage.
I think this might have been a mistake,
guys. Oh no. We'll try one more time. We
got him. We got him. We don't have him.
We don't have him. Oh no.
Uh he does three more points of damage.
I'm going to swallow a potion.
Uh going back up to four. And as I
swallow the potion, I also try and just
poke my stabber at him, try and keep him
back. Uh, this time I hit him for 1d6
plus one, which is automatically death
for him. Death to the knight. Uh, he
does not drop his stabber, but he does
have 3d6 teeth.
12 plus 2d6 from Noble Connor.
Uh, another 12. 24
teeth in total. So that's going to bring
us up to 41 teeth.
Uh I'm going to kneel on one
I'm going to kneel down on
I'm going to kneel down next to the
goblin and and say, "Conor, you are a
noble noble man who brought many worms
back to the village. Thank you so much
for everything you did for us. I'm going
to I'm going to take your teeth now."
And I rip his teeth out and drop them
into my pouch. Those will be those will
be useful later. I'm in a lot of pain.
Uh but fortunately, I have some onions
that I can eat. And I'm going to roast
this goose. And that's going to bring me
back up to eight hit points. Uh I also
drank this potion.
Tooth rich but worm poor indeed.
Uh all right. Uh I'm going to go ahead
and give the village one more shot while
I'm up here.
I may be pushing my luck, but uh we'll
do it anyways.
I think I've got enough hit points to
make this. Okay, so let's see here.
We've we've posed at the tooth fairy.
We've stolen a pie. Hey, look down there
by the lake. There's a there's a
fisherman's fishing rod. That should be
useful. Uh so I'm going to head down
there and
um
steal the fisherman's fishing rod or at
least try to. So, I need to roll a five
or a six because of my negative one
sneakiness.
I rolled a six. That's a success. So, we
can add Let's go ahead. We're going to
add a fishing rod
to our list of things. And then we're
also going to go in here and we'll add
uh fishing rod to the list of things
that we have managed our mischief with.
And then it's back into the woods again.
uh crowing with success. A goblin gnome
stabber in one hand and a fishing rod in
the other. We will take all of their
rod-shaped things and they will be left
with no rod-shaped things if I have
anything to say about it.
Unfortunately, uh what I do is I end up
running right back into another gnome
knight standing over the corpse of the
other gnome knight and also Connor. Uh
this is terrible news for me. Uh I I do
I want to deal with it? I It's a ch It's
a big It's a big chance to deal with
this knight. Um
I got to hit him at least twice. One in
three chance of hitting him. I I'm going
to I'm going to run away. I don't like
it. I'm I'm running away.
I rolled a four. So I actually sneak
away. I see him. So they're
investigating the bodies I left in the
forest before. So I just I'm like, you
know what? Back to the village. Back to
the village.
Uh, and back to the village we go.
And uh, screw these gnomes. I'm going to
piss in the milk barrel. I failed to
piss in the milk barrel. So, with my
trousers kind of round my my knees uh,
pissing everywhere, I go running back
uh, into the woods again. Having having
failed to piss in the milk barrel, but
definitely pissed them off. They're
definitely pissed off. Let's go ahead
and add
milk barrel to our list of things. It
looks like might be getting a little bit
larger. Let's drop the font size down a
little bit. Fit everything on there.
Okay. Uh back into the woods we go. Oh
no, there I think the gnomes are on to
me. They're angry and they're
everywhere. Uh but oh man, I've stumbled
upon a bush with a bunch of berries on
it. So, I I uh I follow the ground, kind
of sitting on the ground next to that,
and I'm going to munch those berries for
one hit point. Delicious berries. I
listen to the sounds in the distance of
the gnomes screaming and yelling and
trying to track me down in the woods
over there, you jerks.
Uh, I think you're right, Accompass. If
we were to with a fishing mod with a
fishing pole, we would add plus three in
the swamp. We would uh be a fishing
toad, which is such an alluring image.
That will probably be the next thing
that we do. But right now, back into the
village. They're all out here in the
woods looking for me. So, they probably
won't be able to find me out. They
probably won't be able to find me when I
go to hunt down and devour the village
rooster to restore full health. You sons
of [ __ ]
I slaughter that rooster. And I eat that
rooster. And I go all the way back up to
10 health. So, screw you guys. And then
I go scampering back into the woods one
last time to eat my rooster in peace
next to the berry bush that I've I've
cleared off all the berries. But but um
but I'm going to go back there.
But on my way to the berry bush, I found
a different berry bush. And those are
delicious, too. Yes. Yes. I munch on
those even though I'm I'm quite full
already. And I eat that rooster just to
just to show them. And now I can hear
them all over the place crawling through
the wards, calling for their lost
rooster. Messy, messy people. But it
doesn't matter because everyone's
running around. So I go back and I sneak
up to the mayor's house. Ah, the guard's
gone. He's looking for me. The mayor's
gone. Looking for me, too. So I crack
open the chest and inside I find another
crown fragment.
Uh, so this is gnomes. And we end up
fleeing away back across the road back
to the goblin village with our
uh with our second crown fragment.
That's excellent news. So, we're going
to pick an advancement. This time, I'm
going to take plus one uh plus one
stabiness uh because having a little
extra attack, I think, is where we
definitely need to be at. So, we're
going to take the plus one stabiness
advancement. Uh, we're at full health.
Um, we need we're going to go ahead and
buy two potions.
Uh, just to have them. And then we'll
head through the woods to the witches
hut.
Back to the witches hut. We're going to
follow the advice. We're going to be
we're going to be a fishing toad in just
a moment. Assuming that no badgers
sabotage us in the woods. You know what?
It seems to be berry season. I rolled
another five in the woods, which means I
found berries down here as well. We're
still at full health, but I'll munch
those berries as we head over to the
witches hut.
Witches hut is on page 10.
So, uh, what we're going to do is
All right. So, we freed some toads in
the swamp earlier. So, there's a chance
that these toads are here seeking
revenge on the witch. This is not the
case. Those particular toads were not uh
were not polymorphed travelers. Uh so,
we automatically fail the sneakiness
test because we're at negative one
sneakiness, which means we're turned
into a toad for three hex's. I'm
starting a new toad tracker as we head
up into the swamp.
The fertile swamp is rife with
deliciously foul smells and goblin
delicacies. Goblin youth flock here to
forge worms and hunt toads, though the
slimes prowling the depths ensure that
not all return home. We're going to try
and fish something out. So, we are a
toad and we have a fishing rod. As a
conoplast point out, that gives us a
plus three.
Uh, we do gain max health. I'm already
at max health. Uh, but it's kind of
point out we're going to get plus three
on this roll. Uh, so hopefully we'll get
a crown fragment.
Uh, 5 + 3 is eight, which is more than
seven. That is another crown fragment.
We're on a roll, people. We're on a
roll. Uh, so that's going to mean that
we go to the swamp and we
immediately get a crown piece
and we get another advancement.
So the question now is
cannot pick the same boon twice. So our
options are increase stealthiness,
increase spelliness.
Uh from now on, all goblins address you
as boss. I think we'll hold off on that
one. Uh when rolling for teeth, you may
reoll one die.
I think let's do spelliness. Let's do
plus one spell, which will give us
effectively a plus zero to our spell.
Uh, all right. That also means that we
go back in the village
and can buy more stuff. Do we need to
buy more stuff is the question. I don't
think that we do at the moment. Um, I
think going out and actually earning a
bunch of teeth to uh buy another crown
fragment is actually probably not a bad
idea at this point. Maybe not. We'll see
how that balances out. So, the question
then is where do we want to go next? So,
uh I
I'm very I'm very scared. I guess that's
So, one option would be that we could
buy more potions to have a lot of
potions and then go back down to the
battlefield now that we have enough.
Oh, wait. What?
Uh, accompllices. It tells you to
increase health by 1d6. And I thought
you added 1d6 max health. Oh, the crown
fragment. Oh, and and health. Oh, yeah.
And health by d6. You're right. I've not
been doing that. I am much weaker than I
should be. So, I've done I've done those
twice. Thank you for that. I completely
blanked the other half of that. Uh, so
let's get some extra hit points
hopefully. Uh, my first d6 roll is a
one. Ww.
And another one. Okay. Well, it was
worth a shot.
Uh, okay. So, not not the greatest uh
health improvements from those. Uh, but
good to have them. Uh, so we can go back
down to the the battlefield. We do have
like a weapon that won't break this
time, which will be nice. Um, we also,
so like I said, buy some extra potions
so that we have a a bit more leeway down
there to recover between the two fights
we have to do to get that crown
fragment. Otherwise, there's the cave
and the wizard's tower. I think let's go
to what we know and try and finally
crack open this burial mound. These
gnomeish bastards can't keep us from our
king forever.
Oh, sorry. Before I leave, I will buy
those potions, though. Uh, I'm going to
buy two more potions.
You know what? Three more potions just
to have them. So, it'll drop us down to
16 teeth. Be a little tooth poor here.
But I still got my ghost teeth. That's
why they call me ghost tooth. Uh, so
then we are in the woods.
Unbelievable.
Uh, the badgers tracked me down again.
So, those those of us joining us, we we
we killed a badger and then the badger's
mate tracked us down and then the
badger's kid tracked us down and then
the badger's other kid tracked us down.
This is actually this is actually not
one of the badgers kids. It's one of the
badgers grandkids who is now tracked us
down to avenge both their mother, their
aunt, their grandmother, and their
grandfather. So, they've got a lot of
vengeance going for them, but not
enough. Uh, so I roll eight on the
attack versus strength three. And then
that's going to be uh six points of
damage, which is enough to kill another
badger with a casual swipe of my mighty
boom boom.
And I take a few moments to harvest
eight teeth from it. You know, now I
think about it, it's possible that the
reason they keep tracking me down is
because I got a pouch full of pouch full
of badger teeth.
I mean, that might be the case. I'm okay
with it, though. We keep heading south
down to the battlefield.
Oops.
Um, do I want to loot or do I want to go
ahead and go for the mound?
I feel like
let's go for the mount. We're going to
do it. So, we're going to go ahead.
Ghost Knight has we formed from his
ectoplasmic remains once again. Son of a
[ __ ] And that means we need to fight a
gnome knight. So we are now at, let me
double check here. We're at stabiness
plus two. He has a strength of six. So
we need to roll a four, five, or six to
hit him. I am attacking with my mighty
boom boom. Even though there's a risk of
it breaking on Well, actually, maybe I
should do it the other way. Now I'll
attack with my I'll attack with the
goblet with the nomish stabber that I
have that I have procured.
I will a six to hit. That's a hit. And
so I'm going to do d6 plus one damage. I
will do five plus one is six. So the
ghost forms and begins uh muttering in
its muttering its ghostly curses at me.
But I'm tired of this guy. So I just
stick the nomish stabber through him and
begin stirring up its ectopplasmic guts.
And then I rip it off to one side. But
unfortunately uh it kind of just crawls
up the I kind of like try to rip it to
the side, but it's actually kind of
stuck in its ectoplasmic mass as it
moves towards me. and
oof. Uh, deals three points of damage to
me. So, this this acidic ectoplasm is
like oozing on to me. I try again to
wrench my gnomeish stabber free. I will
six, which is an eight. That's a hit.
1d6 plus one damage. Come on, man. That
is three points of damage. This time I
do uh in sort of a whirlpool motion just
swirl it around sending spatters of
ectoplasm back and forth all over the
top of the of the mound including one
large gob of it which splatters onto
uh which spatters where they battle
which spatters onto the gargoyle uh who
is nearby. But before we fight the
gargoyle
or as as the gargoyle swoops down
towards us, we're going to do a couple
of things. First off, the gnomeish
knight
uh did not drop a gnome stabber, but did
leave
12 ghost teeth behind. So, I'm going to
claim another 12 ghost teeth from that
guy.
And then we go to the gargoyle. As he
swoops down though, before the gargoyle
reaches me, I will swig one of our
potions,
which only gives me one hit point, but I
think I'll I'll go ahead and just live
with that for right now. You know what?
Let's Let's go. I'll drink another
potion. So, I drink two potions, getting
back to full health,
dropping me to three potions, and then
we got to face off against a gargoyle.
Gargoyle has a strength of six. D6 plus
two damage, although we are trained
against the gargoyle as well, so they'll
deal half damage to me. And then eight
has no teeth and stabs only deal half
damage. Okay, let me just double check
our weapons here.
I have to conclude that the the mighty
boom boom is not a stabber, right? So,
uh, so I'm going to switch back to my
mighty boom boom for this guy.
Uh, let's try and hit him. I rolled a
one, so I did not. In fact, that means
that my mighty boom boom might once
again shatter upon this bloody
gargoyle's rocky hide. And in fact, yes,
my mighty boom boom immediately shatters
uh and breaks uh as I try and swing it
against this gargoyle, which is the
exact same thing that happened last
time.
It's just a goblin's fate. Uh in
addition, this gives him the opportunity
to hit me for six habis three damage.
All right, so the question now is do we
push on with this with a nomabus dealing
half damage?
Uh, I think I'm going to try and give it
a little bit of a shot here just because
I'd rather not have to fight through
that knight again. I'm really tired of
this of this of this of this burial
mound.
Uh, but unfortunately I rolled poorly on
my attacks because he's going to deal
another three. No, sorry. Uh,
uh, yes, that's another three damage
after being h have. So, that's six
damage.
One more time.
That is also a miss.
Uh, he's going to deal forward tab is
two damage. And I am
I gotta run away, I think. I think I got
to run away. Uh, I'm going to drink a
potion. I only got one hit point back.
So, yeah, now I'm going to run away. Uh,
let's run away.
Uh, rolled to four. So, I slip away from
the gargoyle. And due to my uh dirty
hood, uh the gargoyle is unable to do
any more damage to me as I creep my way
back into the line of the forest trees
at the base of the the battlefield, the
muddy battlefield, and attempt to return
to the village so we can once again try
to build up the resources to take out
the burial mound. Kind of driving me
nuts. All right. Uh in the forest, as I
return,
I encounter lost siblings wandering in
the woods. If you if you have pie, they
will follow you wherever you go.
Otherwise, knock out 2d6 teeth before
they scurry away. So, the lost siblings,
we know if we give them to the witch,
she will give us a crown fragment, but
we already have her crown fragment. So,
I don't feel a need to feed the witch
two lost kids for no reason. I don't
know what these human kids are doing out
here, but at least they're not gnomes.
But, I will punch them in the face again
and take You guys got to go home. Uh,
and I'll take nine of their teeth, which
will get me to 45 teeth.
I return to the village.
Uh, somewhat embarrassed that I still
haven't got that crown fragment. I swear
I'm the chosen one. I swear I am. Even
if they're not, you know, choosing me.
Exhausting.
Okay. Uh, all right. So,
um,
exhausting. All right. So, what we're
going to do here, I need another Mighty
Boom Boom. So, let's start off by buying
a Mighty Boom Boom.
Mighty Boom Boom. Uh 1d6 plus two. And
then I need to get my health points back
up with the Stinky Potion. So, we'll
start we'll start buying those. So,
stinky potion one, three hit points.
Stinky potion two, three more hit
points.
Uh I'm going to call that good enough.
and keep 10 teeth. All right, let's try
it again one last time at this bloody
battlefield. I mean, what's the worst
that could happen, right?
I could stumble onto a gnome knight
standing over a goblin corpse is what
could happen. I'm sneaking away. We're
not doing this. I sneak away without
dealing with it. I just want to deal I
just want to deal with this battlefield.
I want the battlefield to be done. All
right, we're going to head up there.
We're going to fight that gnome knight
one more time with the goblin stabber.
Here we go.
Uh immediately miss him. He deals uh one
point of damage.
Try again. Miss him again. He deals two
points of damage this time.
Come on, man. Just go down. I've beaten
you three times before. You can just
die. Die. die. All right, that's three
points of damage on him.
Try and keep up the assault successfully
with two more two more points of damage.
He hits me
for that's six have three points of
damage down to five. That's not great. I
hit him this time for seven and he goes
down. So with a deep thigh,
I have taken out this ghostly knight
again. And he has dropped even more of
his ghost teeth. Eight of them, in fact.
So I will take those teeth. Does he drop
his ghostly stabber?
No.
H I'm so tired. All right, I'm going to
drink a potion.
Get three hit points back. And then one
more potion to get four hit points back.
Down to one potion.
But now we can fight the gargoyle once
again. Gargoyle, take my mighty boom
boom. What's the worst that could
happen?
I can miss. At least it didn't shatter.
That's an improvement. We're improving.
Uh 2 plus two is four. Hab is two. So
two points of damage as the gargo
slashes me. Uh I attack him again.
I miss again. He's kind of flying up
above me where my swings can't hit him.
Uh, that's another two points of damage
from him, though.
I'll try again. Come on, man. Get down
here. Fight like a man. I got a man.
You're a gargoyle. He does three points
of damage.
Come on. Get down here. I hit him.
Uh, that's going to be because I'm using
my boom boom. That's going to be seven
points of damage. Uh, unfortunately, he
has eight hit points, so he still has
one hit point left. Uh, so I bat him out
of the sky and he goes crashing into the
side of the burial mound. I miss him
again. He slashes up with his claws,
dealing
three points of damage. I swallow my
potion. Need a good roll here, otherwise
I'm going to have to run away. I rolled
a four, so that's going to get me to six
hit points. I've got like one more
around here to try and take him down.
uh four plus two because of the plus one
stabiness is a six which is enough to
hit him. Uh he's only got one hit point
left. So that is definite death. And so
I I just I knock him from the sky. He
takes one last slash at me with his
claws. But then I just I just pound on
him. Kind of pounding him into shards of
rock are shattering off and cascading
down the side of the burial mound. and
then in triumph at long last ghost teeth
ghost tooth uh cracks open the
ceremonial uh the ceremonial um seal
upon the tomb and I pass within and I
claim at long last
the crown fragment that is still lodged
into the skull of the goblin king. I
yank that out. And that's going to get
us one more advancement
as I return to town with uh now four of
the the crown the crown fragments, which
is just enough I can kind of I can kind
of paste them together and they kind of
sit lopsided on my head. Clearly not the
full crown yet, but I'll tell you, man,
it's getting close. People know what I'm
doing.
Uh I'm going to go ahead. I would like
some more health. So, we'll increase our
spelliness now, too, to get that health
boost that you guys very helpfully.
Actually, not sorry. I'm going to
increase sneakiness is the one I haven't
done yet. Um, to hopefully get a better
than a roll of one on my health boost.
I rolled a three this time, which is at
least better than
uh what I rolled before ones on the
first two times. So, health goes up to
15, which is not bad. It all balances
out. I rolled really well on my original
health roll, so we had that going for
us. I've only got 18 teeth, but I
definitely need to get some health back.
Um, actually, I should also get the
health and the increase. So, I'm six
down. So, I'm going to buy a potion
for three. And I'm going to buy another
potion
for one. And that I think is going to
have to be as far as I take that because
I like my ghost teeth too much to give
them all up. Um, I do have a pie I could
eat if I need to.
Okay, so there's two more.
There's two more crown fragments out
there. One has to be at the wizard's
tower and one has to be in the cave. Uh
the cave scares me still. Um partly
because I I think to succeed in the cave
I'd have to go back to and I didn't
actually
uh move us back there when we went back
from the advancement. Uh so I think
wizards tower next. What do you guys
think? Let's try the wizards tower. I'm
going to head over here to the the road.
Crime cross the road again. Very
dangerous, but we'll give it a shot.
Oh, I can also That's right. I can buy
one fragment for 40 teeth. That's right.
Thank you for reminding me of that. So,
that that might be our final. We'll see.
We'll see if I can get a run on some
good money again. All right. So, we try
and cross the road and I find three
onion. Uh, sorry, D3 onions, which is in
fact that's the rag die.
I find D3 onions, which is actually one
onion. So, I now have also an onion,
which is great. Actually, you know what?
I'm going to eat that onion immediately
and get up to 14 hit points cuz I'm
going to need it eventually anyways. So,
tasty onions. Munching on tasty onions.
I head across the road and up to the
wizard's tower where we have not been
before. And we're going to head to the
wizard's tower, which is pages 12 and 13
apparently.
Uh-oh, this looks scary. Rising far
above the treetop stands the tower of a
powerful wizard. Its peak lost in the
clouds. A smart goblin would do well to
steer clear as the wizard is a
well-known friend to the gnomes. The
tower's master is often away on long
journeys, leaving his home guarded by
traps and minions. Uh, okay. So, we can
The wizard has left his window open.
It's so high up that only an enchanted
rope will get you there. We only have a
rope, so that's not going to help us.
Climb the tower. The tower has five
floors. The wizard's chamber is at the
very top, and within lies his treasure.
To determine what's on floors 1 to four,
roll 40. Roll D46. Roll a D4 and a D6
and read them left to right. If you
leave the tower to return at a later
time, you will have to roll the floors.
Apparently, the wizard does remodeling.
After rolling up any given floor, you
may choose to return to the bottom. If
you flee from a fight during your climb,
you'll find yourself back at the bottom.
If you find a hat on any floor, you can
wear it, discarding your old one. When
you reach the fifth floor, you find the
wizard's treasure and the crown fragment
within.
Well, this sounds terrifying. Let's do
it. Let's see what happens. I mean,
what's the worst that could happen? So,
we're going to go ahead. We're going to
replace our mischief mischief um
uh
our mischief manage because we've we've
managed all that mischief. So, we'll
replace that with wizards tower is the
new thing we're tracking. And we'll have
a level one here. Let's find out as we
go into the tower and kind of poke
around in a terribly irresponsible way.
I've dropped my die in a terribly
irresponsible way. What's in it? So, I
roll a D4, which is a three, and I
rolled a d6, which is a two. So, the
first level, therefore, is on the next
page. 32 is a levitation glyph. Need to
make a spelliness check or become
suspended midair. I need to eat
something to come back down. Now, I'm
kind of wishing I hadn't eaten that
onion on the way here. But, so level one
is a levitation glyph
just for reference. And we'll put the
number there, too.
Just to make sure I'm doing this
correctly.
So, after rolling up the floor, I could
just choose to return to the bottom
instead. But, I do have a pie I can eat,
so I might as well try this test. So,
let's go ahead and roll
spelliness, which is a plus zero because
we do have an advancement on spelliness.
So, we just need to roll, what was it?
We need to roll a five or a six. We got
a one and three shot here.
I rolled a six. Uh, nice try, wizard.
You can't get me that easily. Let's go
ahead and check out floor number two.
Uh, 31 is what I've rolled for that.
That's unfortunate. Level two is a death
glyph. 31. Now you need to make a
spelliness check of six or die unless
you have an enchanted stabber. I do not,
but my reading of this tower is that
when I see the death glyph, I can choose
not to deal with it. Um,
so I don't want to deal with the death
glyphs. I'm going to return to the
bottom floor and I'm going to be That's
nice. Thank you so much. That place is
terrifying. Let's go check out the caves
instead.
Don't Don't like that. Don't like that.
Uh, so we pass south through the woods.
Uh, stumbling upon a bush bearing
berries. Munch a handful to restore D4,
which will put us at maximum health.
Just delicious berry season here in the
forest. You got to love it. And then
I'll head down to the cave, which is on
pages 14 to 15.
The cave. Hidden deep in the woods is
the entrance to a network of caves
sprawling beneath the forest. Some speak
of forgotten treasures hidden within,
while others mourn of dangers lurking in
the dark. Many a goblin has met its
demise in the winding tunnels, never to
find their way back above. Explore the
cave. This means drawing a map as you
explore. Oh, this is cool. Grab a
separate sheet of paper or use the back
of your character sheet. If this is your
first time in the caves, draw an
oval-shaped room with three exits. All
right. So, what we're going to do here,
we're going to replace our overworld
map. Oops. We're going to replace our
overworld map with the map of the
dungeon that we're going to draw here.
So, it says, "If this is your first time
in the caves, draw an oval-shaped room
with three exits and mark it as the
entrance." Nothing happens here. So,
we'll go ahead and put that. Let me get
colors here.
So, we got the entrance here.
Tweak font size obviously. Get that down
to there. All right. So, we have our
entrance. Great. So, when we follow one
of the exits, roll on tables one, two,
and then three, which is on the next
page. We'll look at that in a moment.
Uh we'll go ahead and close that. Leave
the wizards tower there. But uh okay. So
nothing happens in the entrance. So we
want tables one, two, and also table
three, which is over here. Uh see what
you find. And then that's the way that
works. So we'll go ahead. Let's pick an
entrance. I'm going to head uh I'm going
to head norththeast, I think, first. Uh
so yeah, northeast first. No, sorry. I'm
going to head northwest first. Northwest
first. So we rolled for room shape. I
rolled a four. So, it's an L-shaped
room.
Maybe I shouldn't be drawing quite this
large. We'll see how this goes. Um, so
we're going to draw an L-shaped room.
Kind of like that. I think that looks
great.
Uh, then we roll the number of exits
here.
There. I will do one. So, it's a one,
but it leads downwards. You'll need a
rope to proceed. So, let's draw this as
like a little a little hole here
and then with dotted lines down to what
will be a new level we'll put over
there. We'll say uh good thing is we
bought a rope. We bought a rope day one.
We were on top of this. So, we are ready
to climb down. But next, we need to see
what is actually in this L-shaped room.
So, we need to roll for encounters. Roll
a d6. If you're following the ghost's
advice, we have not talked to a ghost
yet. Add one to your roll. However, if
you roll a one, play out option zero.
Um, so we aren't following the ghost's
advice, so we just are rolling a d6.
Five. Five is a trap. We need to make a
sneakiness roll or to avoid it or take
d4 damage.
Okay. Trap. All right. Sneakiness roll
is just flat up roll because I'm at a
negative one from my stats, plus one
from advancement. I rolled a four. So, I
have avoided the trap and I have
disarmed the trap. So, the trap is now
uh presumably gone forever. So, we will
go ahead and indicate that as well. Uh
let's go ahead and use our rope. Let's
keep going. Uh actually, wait a minute.
Can we So, we can't we cannot find the
crown fragment here
unless we can get advice from the ghost
who I believe is over on the
battlefield.
Um,
okay.
All right. Well, you know, I'm going to
go ahead and I think I'm actually going
to head back to the entrance and leave.
And I think what we're going to do is
we're going to go back to
uh I think we're going to head back and
Oh, it's on the treasure table, too. It
is on the treasure table, too.
Okay. Okay, let's poke around a little
bit more then and we we won't leave
quite yet. Let's take the rope and go
down.
All right. Um, so new room on the lower
level is a square room. So, let's draw a
square up here. Uh, number of exit three
world of three, which means two exits.
We'll go ahead and say that one
goes this way and one goes
And then the encounter for this, I
rolled a one. The entrance, if the
entrance is already on the map, I got
lost. Erase the entire dungeon except
for the room you're in.
Okay.
Uh, great. Okay. So,
so this is now the entrance.
Uh, yep. All right. So, this is now the
entrance. Good enough, I think. And then
we're going to go ahead and literally do
what it told us, which is to just erase
the rest of Oops, that's not it. Uh,
and erase
the rest of the dungeon. Goodbye
dungeon.
I'm very confused in here.
Uh, no. No pitch. If I roll a one
I I if I roll a one uh if I'm following
the ghost's advice, it turns to zero.
All right. Uh let's go ahead. We'll go
we'll go this way. Uh by this way, I
mean directly directly east.
[Applause]
All right. So, oval room
with three exits. All right. So,
why did that suddenly shrink so much?
I'm on the wrong tool. Come on. Uh, oval
room with three exits.
And then the encounter here will be
five, which is a trap. Another trap. We
need to make a sneaky check to avoid it.
What a terrible way for us to have gone
here.
Uh, let's try the sneakiness back.
Failed. So, I'm going to take D4 damage
from the trap. This also doesn't disarm
the trap. Took one damage from it. Uh,
so that'll have to face that trap every
time I come back this way. Um, let's go
ahead and I'm going to head north and
see if I can connect back up with where
we were coming from.
mainly because I kind of want to get
back to the uh
get back to the entrance if possible.
Opal room up here.
Three exits, one of which will be that
way. And then we'll go ahead and do two
this way as well. All right. And then
encounter.
Uhoh.
We have encountered a blood and loot
craze low-level adventurer.
So, we need to roll D4 for class. We
have encountered a warrior. So, his base
strength is five, but he's going to have
a strength of seven, which means we'll
have to roll a five or higher ourselves
to hit him. He'll do D6 plus two damage.
He has 10 health. When defeated, there
is a chance that he will drop an
enchanted stabber when fleeing, which
would help us back in the witch's tower.
So,
but I don't know if I can take him. Uh,
let's go ahead and do Mighty Boom Boom.
Let's see if we can get a good hit off
on him and then maybe run away.
I have missed him.
He does seven points of damage. Oh no, I
don't think so. Time to go run away. I
run away. Fleeing uh fleeing into the
dungeon. Uh fleeing away from all of
that nonsense. Um and if I want to do is
I'm going to go back to the entrance.
I'm going to exit the dungeon. I think
that the odds of finding the crown
fragment down here without
the ghost advice is quite low.
So, that's not it.
Stop.
There we go. Uh, so I'm actually going
to go ahead. Let's go ahead and do I
want to try and actually retreat back to
town? No, I think we'll risk it. I'll
head down across the road. Oops.
Uh, this way.
And that'll take us to the road.
Uh, a deer is hit by a reckless cart and
we find 2d6 teeth. That is seven teeth.
And you know what I think? I think the
deer meat is tasty. So, we're going to
add deer here. You know, actually, I'm
going to roast that deer immediately and
get an extra hit point. There's no
reason to wait. So, we'll eat that deer
and then later on in the evening, we'll
continue back down to the battlefield.
Uh, the mound has been has been looted,
but we're going to scour the battlefield
for loot and see if we can find that
ghost who's lurking around here, or
maybe just something else that's useful.
Uh, I have rolled a five, which allows
me to find a goblin weapon, uh, which is
going to be a stabber, a stabber on a
stick, or a big stabber. This is not
terribly useful, but I have rolled a big
stabber. So, let's go find the stats for
that real quick. I think it's on page
five. Uh, big stabber is D6 damage. We
will add that to our
uh equipment just in case we need it.
And that's it for the battlefield. We
need to retreat for the night and camp
in the woods up to the north here,
uh, where we find a gnome knight
standing over a goblin's corpse.
I'm sick of these gnome knights killing
goblins. And I also need the teeth. So,
let's fight this guy.
All right. So, this is a gnome knight.
He does half damage to us. We hit him on
a four through six roll,
which I have not done. He deals two plus
one two damage to me.
I miss him again. He hits me for one
damage.
Not going well. I just get a No, not a
decent roll. Um, in fact, my big boom
boom has just broken and shattered. So,
the mighty boom boom is gone once again.
Uh, and he is going to deal
three points of damage to me. And I'm
going to flee with no choice but to
flee. I flee desperately away from him
and up into the goblin village. Things
are going very poorly for us at the
moment.
We've only got 15 teeth left. I need to
get some health back. Quite a bit of
health back. So, I'm going to try and
buy some potions.
Potion one heals one damage.
Potion two heals one damage.
O.
Uh, that's all the potions I can afford
at the moment because I need to keep at
least one teeth tooth so I can eat. So,
we are in rough shape. This is the worst
we have been in at any time in the game.
This is rough. All right, I'm going to
head into the swamp and see if I can
find some tasty treats is all I can
think to do at this point. So, we'll
head up into the swamp.
I have a fishing rod thankfully because
otherwise I would have found a swamp
slime. Unfortunately, what I found
instead was a skeleton. I fish a skull
out followed by a skeleton. And the
skeleton has a strength of four, does D4
damage, and has six health. Um,
realistically though, I've got pretty
good odds on him since I'll hit on uh a
two or better. Uh, so I got to take the
risk because those teeth will actually
let us buy the potions that we need to
survive. So, ah, skeleton. I immediately
rolled a one.
So, we could die here with a d4 damage
roll. Well, if I roll a four on this
die, the saiga of ghost teeth will have
come to an end. I have rolled a three.
All right. Uh, my best odds for survival
are actually to take this guy out. So, I
will attempt to attack him again.
This time I roll a six, which is eight,
which is a hit. Uh, I'm attacking with
my gnomish stabber, which is a d6 plus
one.
Throwing dice on the floor again.
5 + 1 is six. That is a death for the
skeleton. So, I smash the skeleton back
into the swamp, rip its skull from its
spine, and take the moment to pluck out
all the individual teeth from the skull,
uh, which is a total of 15 teeth,
actually, which is great. So, I'm at 20
teeth now. Uh, we will then, uh, flee
back to the village, which will let us
buy some more potions at five a crack,
stinky potions, to try and heal some
more health. So, we'll do three potions.
Two.
Four is six. Two is eight. So, I'm back
at nine health. Having maximized our
spend again. Could be worse. I'm still
not feeling great, though. So, we're
going to head back into that swamp. And
maybe I could just berries or or
something would be nice. Just something
that isn't death would be great.
So, with the fishing pole, I rolled a
four plus one is five. I have found a
gnome villager picking herbs. I can roll
a sneakiness of three to sneak up on him
and land an automatic hit. Let's do it.
I rolled a six. So, uh, that's a
successful sneakiness check. That's a
free hit of four hit points. That leaves
him with one hit point. I hit on
anything but a one, but I rolled a one,
so I miss. He does D4 damage to me as he
rolls around smacking me in the face
with his herbs. That is one point of
damage as I respond by stabbing him with
his own. I w another one. I have missed
him again. I'm in such bad shape. My
legs hurt so much and everything hurts
and I'm kind of stuck in the mud. It's
no good here. All right, this time I hit
him. Uh, I'm doing 1d6 plus one. I
rolled a one, so he has three hit points
left.
I smack him again, hitting him again.
This time I rolled a two finally, which
is the minimum to hit. Uh, and that'll
do I will a one on damage though. So, he
is still alive with one hit point.
Now he's dead. So, I I I I murder this
this gnome villager,
rapaciously loot five teeth from his
corpse.
uh allowing us to return to the village
and once again try to
uh heal up with some potions. One
not great
and back to the swamp.
We'll just we'll slowly crawl our way
back into health and prosperity is is my
thinking here. So three. I found a
snake.
Snakes are dangerous if you don't have
potions. I am carrying one for just this
reason. I will hit him on any roll.
So just need to deal automatic damage.
There's no reason not to fight the snake
at this point. So uh he is
dead. And I get D4 teeth from this
snake.
I will four. That's great. So, we'll go
back to nine teeth. Uh, I'm going to
keep moving through the swamp. Little
bit risky move, but I think it's worth
it.
Uh, that's a six plus one from the
fishing rod. It would be a crown
fragment. Uh, but I already have the
crown fragment from the swamp, so
nothing here.
Heading back the other way, I get a six,
which is I pull up a rotten carpus
carcass crawling with one worm, which I
will eat immediately.
And we'll head this way into the woods.
I think
5 + 1 is more worms. So, lots of worms
crawling out. Must be night here in the
swamp. Now, I found two more worms,
which will put me back at full health.
We'll continue exploring the swamp up
this way.
1 plus one is another skeleton, which
could be good if I roll better this time
is what it boils down to. So the
skeleton again I hit on anything but a
one.
I rolled a six.
I rolled one for damage. So that's going
to be two damage.
So he's got four hit points left. Hit
him again. Hit him this time for a bunch
of damage. And I once again rip the
spell free. Pluck 17 teeth. That's a
good teeth roll. So 17 teeth is going to
put me at 26 teeth. Let's return to the
village.
I'm going to buy two more potions
to put us at three potions total for
adventuring. Now the trick here at this
point is
what is our strategy for actually
getting what is our strategy for
actually getting another crown fragment?
Because at this point, I think my
strategy is I need to go get a crown
fragment
and then
I need to go get a crown fragment by
exploring either the wizard's tower or
the cave. One or the other. And then if
I can do that, then
I can
buy the last one. We can just crank up
money to buy the last crown fragment in
town. We forge the crown and become the
goblin king. And the question is, can we
do that before we run out of time on our
stream today?
All right. So, I'm going to go ahead and
put this to a vote. Should we go uh
should we go back to the battlefield and
try to get the ghost to tell us the
information about the cave? That'll make
it easier to get that cave fragment.
Should we just go straight to the cave
or should we go to the wizard's tower
and attempt to get to the fifth floor of
the wizard's tower? If we could find
enchanted rope, we would also be
uh if we could find enchanted rope, we
would also be in better shape. But I
don't
uh know where
uh where the enchanted rope is, is I
guess the short version. So,
uh, so we don't we don't have that. So,
Battlefield,
Cave, or Wizards Tower are going to be
our three options. I'm going to let this
poll run for three minutes because I
also need to take a a short break here
on my end. So, we'll start this poll.
Uh, we will take a quick break and when
I come back, we'll find out where it is
that we're going for the uh for probably
one of our last little la last little
expeditions as Ghost Tooth the Goblet.
>> 5 minutes later.
>> Before we took our break, we ran a short
poll seeing where we would be going to
next and the results were unanimous. We
are heading to the Wizards Tower. So, we
are going to leave the village and we're
going to attempt to cross the road. The
road is on page seven here. So, we're
going to pop up over to the road, and
we're going to roll a random encounter
on the road. I have rolled a four.
Uh, so a deer has been hit by a reckless
cart driver. Uh, which means that we
have found 2d6 teeth, which is our
goblin currency. Uh, so we add nine
teeth, which is going to be 25 teeth
total. And also, we have a deer carcass,
which is edible food. Every time we eat
something edible, we get a hit point
back uh from our health. We're currently
at full health, so we'll uh we'll we'll
um uh strip that carcass down and sto
store the meat for later use. We can
then move on to the wizard's tower. Uh
the wizard's tower is located on Whoops,
not that page. Wizards tower is located
on page 12 and 13. So, we were here
earlier with the wizard's tower. The way
this works is that we're going to be
attempting to climb the tower to get to
the fifth level. If we had an enchanted
rope, we could just climb straight up
there, but we don't know where the
enchanted rope is. We haven't found it.
but we don't know where it is. So, we're
going to be trying to work our way up
through the deadly interior of the
wizard's tower. The wizard's tower is
enchanted and constantly being magically
renovated. And therefore, even though we
were here earlier,
uh we will not be able to use any of
that knowledge that we gained previously
um because the tower will have
reorganized itself. But every time we go
into the tower, we have to get to the
fifth level. Each level we roll a d46,
which is a d4 of the 10's place, and a
d6 in the onees place, and then we check
the tables to see what that level of the
tower has. So far, it has not been nice,
but we'll give it our best shot. At any
time, we can return to the first level
of the tower and flee. Um, I have rolled
an 11, which is a low-level adventurer,
uh, which is a lackey. So, the wizard's
lackey is on level one. Uh, and we are
going to go ahead and go to the
low-level adventurers page. We are going
to roll a d4 to determine the class of
this lackey. This lackey is a wizard.
Upon first hit, they cast a shield
spell, reducing damage by d6. The first
time they hit you, they cast a magic
missile for 3d4 damage. Okay, well, they
can't kill me in one shot at least.
There's a one in two chance they drop a
pouch with d4 universal spell
components. Well, that sounds cool. Um
the base stats for a low-level adventure
is strength five which means that we
need to roll a five stabiness. Um as we
know our stabiness is plus two currently
plus one to start plus one from an
advancement. So if we roll a 3, four,
five or six we will hit this wizard.
Uh and then we will need to deal seven
points of damage. Going to be attacking
him with our nomish stabber which is a
d6 plus one. Let's go ahead and see if
we can take him out. So, for our first
attack, as we rush him, I roll a five on
the dice. Plus two is seven. That's
going to be a hit. And then D6 plus one
for damage. Come on. Uh, D6 plus one for
damage is three. That's four points of
damage. Uh, so he's still up with three
hit points remaining. The wizard gasps
from pain and tries to cast a spell. I
wrench back my uh my gnomish stabber and
stab him again before he has a chance to
utter a spell. Hopefully. Uh, 3 plus two
is five, which is enough to hit him. He
gasps and cannot complete his spell,
taking five more points of damage. I rip
out his intestines.
And
how many teeth do low-level adventurers
have? I mean, they must have teeth,
right? Oh, and they have 5d6 teeth when
you knock them out. That's great. Uh,
that's a lot. Uh, it's 11 11 22. Another
Wow, that's a that's a huge roll. Um, 28
teeth from this guy. He had a full mouth
of teeth. He must have a nice dental
plan for the wizard hoaxis. I wonder if
he'd hire me. All right, let's go ahead
do that. Then there is a one in two
chance that he'll drop a pouch with
universal spell components. He didn't.
What a jerk. All right, back to the
wizard's tower. So, that was level one
was the wizard's lackey. We're now going
to go on to level two. Climbing the
stairs, we come to
[Applause]
31, which
isn't great because we've been here
before. 31 is a death glyph. I have to
make a spelliness check of six or die
unless you have an enchanted stabber.
Unfortunately, we did not manage to uh
glean the enchanted stabber. Now, the
good news is that we can always in the
go oops in the goblins in the wizard's
tower, we can always choose after
rolling the floor uh to retreat to the
bottom.
Uh so,
uh I I'm not going to try and do the
death glyph and automatically die here
with such a because basically needing to
roll a six to not die. So, I'm leaving
the tower again. We're fleeing back into
the forest. We'll have to circle back
tomorrow and hope that the death glyph
on level two has finally gone away.
Although it seemed to be very effective
security, so I don't know why he would
ever get rid of it, but maybe we'll get
lucky. Uh, the woods.
Uh, I find a gnome knight standing over
a goblin's corpse. So, I still need
teeth and we're pretty good against
gnome knights. So, and we're still in
good shape. So, we're going to go ahead
and try and take this guy. I've got a
goblin stabber. Uh, the gnomeish
stabber. So, attacking. Uh, need a f
four, five, or six to hit. I've rolled a
six. Uh, so I'm going to go ahead and do
1d6 plus one damage to this knight. I
rolled a one on that, so he still has
five hit points left.
Uh, I try and take him unawares, but my
even my nomber just deflects off of his
armor.
God, no mish bastard. Uh, then I roll a
one. Uh, which is unfortunate. It's a
miss. He rolls a three, which is four.
So he's going to do 2 point. So, he
whirls around and slashes at me. My left
arm kind of falls numbly to my side.
Uh, yeah, that's
what No, sorry. Two damage from him to
having. Uh, we are well trained against
gnomish knights, so he only does half
damage to us, which is why we are good
against them. Uh, that's a hit on him.
So, even though my arm falls numb, I do
seven points of damage to him. So, my
arm falls numb, but I just kind of toss
this the stab in my other hand and then
stab up through there's like a little
crack between his helmet and his and his
uh and his and his breastplate. And the
spear goes straight up through that
crack and into his throat and kind of
circs him to one side. I just kind of
jam the spear, the stabber, uh, into the
ground, keeping him kind of like up at
an angle, kind of just up like propped
up on that, which gives me a good angle
to pull out all of his teeth.
all 10 of his teeth
because I have a less good dental plan
over at the Nomish Village. That puts us
at 63 teeth. One in six chance he'll
drop his stabber. Did not drop a stabber
for us. Was too damaged during the
fight. Uh and so we'll return to
Yeah, I think I'm comfortable returning
to the wizard's tower at this point. So
we will now return to the wizard's
tower, which has rearranged itself.
Let's go ahead and see what the wizards
tower has waiting for us this time. So
on level one,
22. 22 is a pit trap. We need to pass a
five sneakiness or fall into a deep pit.
Die of starvation unless you have rope
or are a toad. So this is this is
perfectly safe for us uh because we have
rope.
And so uh we'll go ahead and try the
sneakiness test. I fail, but I climb
back out with my rope and we proceed up
to level two.
On level two, oh my goodness, that these
dice keep rolling the same results. Uh,
not a death glyph this time, but a
levitation glyph. Um, we become
suspended in midair if we fail a five
spelliness check. Um, we need to eat
something to come back down.
Fortunately, we do have some eating
options. Um, so we'll go ahead and try
this.
I will a four on my spelling check. Uh,
my spelling this totals up to plus zero,
so four will not do it. But I eat I rip
out some raw deer meat and eat that and
float back down again, which allows us
to proceed up to
allows us to proceed up to level three
where we find
21 is a poisoned arrow trap. Pass a six
sneak test or die unless you drink the
stinky potion. Well, we do have a potion
for exactly this mean. So, we'll give it
a shot. See if we can get past this. I
actually rolled a six, which is what we
needed. So, uh, as we come up the
staircase onto the third level for the
first time, there's a audible snap as a
poisoned arrow, uh, shoots out from the
far wall. Um, and I duck down and kind
of just drop to the stairs. The arrow
goes over my head and smashes into the
wall uh, behind me. Still slightly light
from the effects of the levitation
glyph, I go bounding up the stairs to
level four.
[Applause]
32 is another levitation glip. He must
be doing some kind of uh levitation
experimentation here. So, we'll uh again
roll a five here. I've succeeded this
time. Uh with my experience with the
previous levitation glyph, I easily
avoid uh this one. Heading up to the
fifth level. Let me just double check
how this works. So, when you reach the
fifth level, you find the wizard's
treasure and the crown fragment within.
Um, I'm going to rule that that means I
think consistently that means there's
actually nothing up on the fifth level.
And so we have succeeded. Uh, we get to
the top level, there is an enchanted
chest
uh that has been left open carelessly by
the wizard and we claim
the sixth
the sixth of our
crown fragments. This automatically
returns us to the village in triumph. Uh
before we do that, we will take our our
last advancement, which is going to be
we get extra teeth whenever we win. This
is not going to matter, however, because
we have 63 teeth and we can go shopping
in the village and buy a crown fragment
for 40, which is in fact what we will
do. We will pay 40 village
by right of stop that by right of
by right of claimancy. We claim the
final crown fragment within the goblin
village. We unify the seven pieces of
the crown fragment and we place it upon
our own head declaring ourselves to be
boss. Boss of all the goblins. And all
the goblins come out from their huts and
they raise up their hands and cheer.
Boss, boss, boss.
And we've won the game. Ghost Teeth has
become the new Goblin King. That's
terribly exciting, isn't it? So, yeah.
So, that was that was Goblin uh the uh
solo RPG about a goblin's life by Roshek
Rosinski. And I had a really great time
with that. I hope you guys did too. The
other thing I should mention, I haven't
really mentioned this, but the
Kickstarter is actually not just for
Goblin. It's actually for, I believe
there's four of these solo RPGs that
they're doing for a variety of fantasy
humanoids. So, there'll be Goblin,
there'll be some other ones as well. So,
I'm really looking forward to checking
out the other uh solo tabletop narrative
games that they're going to have in that
Kickstarter. And maybe we'll check some
of those out too when the Kickstarter
rolls around. Good gaming. This is
Justin Alexander and I'll see you
at the
