Dungeons. You know how they work. You
draw a map that has rooms. You write
little numbers in the rooms. You write
up a room key describing each room. If
you don't know how dungeons work, that's
okay. For some reason, the D and D rule
books don't teach you how to do that
anymore. Grab a copy of So You Want to
Be a Game Master or hit the subscribe
button down below. I'll be doing a
Dungeons 101 video very soon. But if you
do know how dungeons work, then you know
that when the PCs start exploring the
dungeon, you just look at the room
they're in, describe it, and let them do
stuff until they run out of stuff to do.
Then they pick an exit, go to the next
room, and you describe the new room.
Then you simply repeat this until the
dungeon is done. But wait a minute. Wait
a minute. The PCs are in one room, and
then they go to another room. But how do
they get there? I mean, maybe the rooms
are right next to each other, but in a
lot of dungeons, the way you get from
one room to another is by following a
corridor. Corridors, of course, can be
any number of things. Hallways, tunnels,
courtyards, passages, shafts, stairs,
but because they typically don't appear
in the dungeon key, they often end up
defaulting to to blank ciphers or
generic mush, just empty expanses of
gray stone or or featureless utility
spaces. But that's not the way corridors
work in the real world. And in our
adventures, it's a missed opportunity
for world building. Now, to avoid this,
of course, you could just add every
hallway to your key. In practice,
though, this takes a lot of work, and it
also tends to to bloat your dungeon key
and map in ways that aren't really
useful. So, what you can do instead is
add a corridor themes section to your
dungeon key. Now, what you want here is
a pallet that you can draw from to
flexibly describe hallways on the fly as
the PCs pass through them. For example,
in a haunted house, your corridor theme
might be might be torn red carpets, uh a
painting with eyes that follow you,
broken furniture, cobwebs, broken glass
on the floor, and and creaking
floorboards. Now, I've been using the
word dungeon here because that's how
most of us are introduced to the
location crawl scenario structure, but
you can use location crawls in a lot of
different situations and in any genre.
Now, if the PCs are exploring a mega
corpse archology in cyberpunk, for
example, you might have potted plants,
security cameras, motivational
propaganda posters, color-coded section
stripes on the walls, navigational
signs, touchscreen directories,
maintenance drones, and and vending
machines. I mean, the only limit is your
imagination. And once you've built your
corridor themes, you can think of them
as a menu. Whenever the players are
walking down a new hallway, just just
grab a couple items from the menu,
combine them with the navigational
details from the map, and paint a
picture for your players. Your bare feet
sink into the torn red carpet that runs
the length of the hallway. Down one side
of the hall, you can see three doors
with cobwebs clinging to their lentils.
It's just that simple. Now, now you
don't want to use every element in every
hallway, obviously, but it's okay to
reuse elements. I mean, the whole point
is that these are common features found
throughout the location. And since I'm
constantly mixing and matching these
elements, dropping them in as needed, my
corridor themes are generally just a
brief list of bullet points like the
ones you've seen here. If you wanted to
though, you could number your theme
elements and turn them into a kind of
random table. Grab 2d6 or 3d6. Roll them
and and grab the matching results for
each die from your corridor themes
table. If you roll matching numbers,
that hallway just has the one thing or
maybe an unusual number of that thing,
you know, whatever makes sense. You can
also write your corridor themes down on
a post-it note and affix it to your GM
screen. If you watched our video on how
to become a better GM, which I'll link
to in the font of all knowledge down
below, you might be using a similar
technique already for your practice
points. Having this kind of stuff at
your fingertips is exactly what a GM
screen is for and is another reason to
keep your corridor themes short and
sweet so that they can easily fit. But
if a specific corridor theme needs more
detail to make it useful, then prep what
you need. Uh, for example, our our
archology featured color-coded stripes
on the wall identifying what section of
the complex we're in. Would it be useful
to have a master list of what each color
means? If you think so, write them down.
But in general, the continuity of what
you describe usually isn't too
important. You're painting a picture
over time, and you don't need to
perfectly repeat the description of each
hallway if the PCs do double back. If
the players do take special notice of
some specific detail, though, that's
fine since it might stick out in their
memory, it may be useful to make a note
on your map so that you can remember
that it's there. But in my experience,
this is this is rarely, if ever,
necessary. Corridor themes are also a
great way to enhance a published
adventure. You'll probably only need a
couple of minutes after reading the
dungeon to jot down a halfozen or so
thematic elements, but in play, it'll
level up the whole experience for you
and the players. If you're prepping or
running a larger dungeon, on the other
hand, you may discover that it has
several distinct sections. Uh, for
example, the castle versus the dungeon
beneath it, or the the dwarven armories
versus the fungal farms. All you need to
do is prep a separate corridor theme for
each section, and you'll be good to go.
Once you start slicing a dungeon up into
sections like this though, don't fall
into the trap of prepping too many
corridor themes. Your goal is still to
capture broad features of the dungeon,
not describe every individual corridor.
Some corridors are more important than
others. Sometimes you'll have a hallway
that's truly unique or has some featured
element that's important to the
scenario. Uh maybe there's a a secret
door or a devious trap or or a weird
painting that contains an important
clue. If a particular corridor or
section of a corridor is important, then
you should just, you know, go ahead and
key it like a room or any other featured
element in the dungeon. And if you're
looking for inspiration in creating cool
corridor themes, check out Describe, the
sponsor of today's video. Not only is
their professionally written box text a
great way to enhance or stock your
dungeon rooms, but you can also pull
evocative thematic details for your
corridors. Uh, for example,
semi-randomly opening a couple of
describes hundreds of free place
descriptions lets me quickly assemble a
fresh corridor theme for the cave
complex my players will be exploring
next week. Fragments of rock and soil,
multi-hued mineral deposits, a salty
smell in the air, and and maybe milky
white stagtites. Use the link below to
explore free scenes, interactive maps,
amazing MPCs, and immersive adventure
soundtracks for both fantasy and science
fiction settings. Good gaming. This is
Justin Alexander and I'll see you at the
