Okay guys, so I have uh made the
character. Uh he's sort of a ranger type
in this kind of low to mid fantasy
world. He uses a bow. He's good in the
woods. That kind of stuff. He has some
hindrances though. He tends to be
cautious about things. I'll have to
remember to play that. Also, he has an
enemy, a minor enemy. I'm an outsider,
which means that I have a penalty to my
charisma. What we're going to do now, we
are going to use uh some random
generation tables for background from
this book, Xanithar's Guide to
Everything. So, let's see what's going
on with his parents. I do know who my
parents are or were. Birthplace, another
D100 roll. And we have 12. Home. Okay.
He was born at home. Who raised you?
Yeah, who raised you? So, who did raised
you? Uh, we've got 18. So, which means
the paternal grandparents,
which leads to a question. Maybe
something happened to his father or his
both his parents. Well, here we go.
Let's determine what happened to the
parents with a roll of D4. Four is your
parent disappeared to an unknown fate.
Personal decisions. It's a d6 roll. And
I've got a four. My people lived on the
edges of civilization and I learned the
methods of survival from my family. What
that means to me is that my grandparents
lived basically in a small cottage at
the edge of civilization. Woodsmen or or
hunters, trappers, that kind of thing.
So, I obviously learned my craft from
them. Which leads us to H. We don't
really have class training so much cuz
there's no classes in Savage Worlds, but
I'm basically a ranger, so I'm going to
roll on that. And that leaves four. I
have seen what happens when the monsters
come out from the dark. I took it upon
myself to become the first line of
defense against the evils that lie
beyond civilization's borders. I saw my
parents get taken by some sort of
monstrous evil. So, life events 26 uh on
the Zenithar's guide gives us 1d4 life
events. So, I'm going to roll and I've
got two life events. You made a friend
of an adventurer. Well, let's see. We
have the supplemental tables here. Uh
let's just roll on. He's an adventure.
So, we're going to use the D and D
class. So, we're going to roll
percentiles here. 40. And it was a
fighter. Okay. Friend, adventure,
fighter. This could be good because this
might mean that I have an ally coming
out of the gate. And since I it's just
me sort of alone in the woods or
wherever I wind up, it's probably good
to have an ally. So, let's determine his
race.
86 is a half orc. Ooh,
a half orc is not going to be accepted
by the majority of civilization. The
same as my character. So, a couple of
kind of outcasts moving along uh is is a
great thing to play with here. The next
life event is going to be a 66. Ooh, you
had a supernatural experience. Roll on
the supernatural events table to find
out what it was. You witnessed a minor
miracle. So, that would lead me to the
assumption that this character has some
level of extraordinary faith, although I
always find it interesting. It's not
really faith if you've got like
evidence, is it? Oh, don't really know.
In a world where there are gods doing
miracles, not really hard to believe in
their existence, is it? Whatever.
Anyway, uh so what do we know about this
guy? His parents disappeared to an
unknown fate. He saw his parents get
taken away by some sort of monstrous
evil. Not necessarily killed. We don't
know what happened to the parents. It's
an unknown fate. So, I think that could
be a thread actually for our character.
When we look at the mythic GM emulator,
we know that I have a halfwork fighter
friend. And we also know that I
witnessed a supernatural event, a minor
miracle. What that is, we'll discover
what that is in a second. So, we're
going to use uh we're going to use
Zanithar once again to determine the
name cuz hey, why not? Let's get uh the
halfwork name of my buddy Vilberg.
Vilberg. He's He's Vilberg. My halfwork.
Vilberg sounds like he might be in a
Woody Allen movie somewhere. Vilberg.
Uh, Sharp Tusk.
That's a bit lame, isn't it? My name,
uh, human names. I could do Celtic. You
know what? I'm just going to go with
tried and trueue English male names cuz
it'll be easier for me to pronounce.
It's going to be 87, which means we have
Simon. You know what? I think the
Perilous Wild book has some some names
in here as well. Ooh, Arguston. Okay,
well, this is good. uh Simon of Argiston
with Vilborg Sharp Tusk, his halfwork
fighter ally are going to be starting
out um somewhere. So the first thing we
know is that we have a thread and the
thread is find out the fate of my
parents. We automatically have a a
thread from that which is great. Good
place to start. Um the next one we have
characters. Well, we have me, Simon, but
we also have Vilborg. So, the first
thing we're going to do is come up with
the scene setup. So, with Mythic GM
emulator, GM emulator. So, we're going
to generate a random event to determine
what our setup is. So, to determine a
random event, the first thing we do is
determine the event focus. Okay, this is
a percentile roll. So, I'm going to roll
here and it's 24, which means NPC
action. So, one of the NPCs, the half
orc is the good choice right now, take
some sort of surprise action. And what
is that action? We have action and
subject on our chart. We wind up with
ooh 95 punish. Like the sound of that
and 82
dispute. It's that he's just been uh
found guilty of a crime in a small town.
Uh we're far away from home. Couple of
outsiders. He's been found guilty of a
crime he's uh uh uh he didn't commit. I
am on the outside of that village. I
should say Simon. Simon of Augustan. And
I believe we'll make him sound a little
like this. He's 26. He has a bit of a a
bit of a British accent. Yes, why not?
Until I decide to change my mind and do
something different. This will be Simon
of Augustan's voice. So Simon of
Augustan is outside this village.
They're marching uh they're marching
Vilborg, uh Simon's friend to the
gallows just on the outskirts of town.
Okay. So this is scene number one. So
then then what we do is we roll 1d10
against the chaos factor. Chaos Factor
starts at five to see if uh the setup is
modified as an altered scene or an
interrupt. So, I roll a 10. So, no. Uh
the scene progresses as normal. We play
out the scene and we go right into the
action. So, here's my first question on
the fake chart. Since Vilborg is being
marched out to the gallows to suffer a
terrible fate for a crime he did not
commit, my first question as Simon is,
okay, how many guards are there? Are
there are there more than five guards? I
think that's fair fairly unlikely. The
chaos rank is currently five and I roll
percentiles and 13. Do they have more
than or do they have five guards or
more? And the answer is yes. This is a
problem. So here's what I think this
means. This means that while Vilborg is
being marched to the gallows, he's
surrounded by five guards. So they
obviously think he's a big threat. So he
must have done something or accused of
he must have been accused of doing
something quite gruesome, quite awful.
Maybe killed somebody. Let's find out.
Let's find out what the crime was. Was
he arrested and convicted of murder? I
have no idea. So, I'm going to call it
50/50 chaos rank five. And the answer is
83. So, no, it was not. He was not
convicted of murder. So, he didn't kill
anybody. So, there's five guards. They
still think he's very dangerous even
though he didn't actually kill anybody.
So, what did he did he steal something?
You know, again, 50/50. I'm not exactly
sure. Did he steal something valuable
from the town? 95. Extraordinary. No.
So, he absolutely did not steal
something. That's not the crime they
convicted him of. So, it has nothing to
do with theft. It has nothing to do with
murder. Oh, here's an idea. There's a
bounty on orcs. We were outside. He goes
in to buy supplies. They see him. They
mistake him for a full orc. They arrest
him. Yeah. Oh, yeah. This is full on
like racial badness. This is them going
after him simply because he is an orc.
even though he's not an orc, he's a half
orc. And he tried to tell him that, but
they didn't seem to want to listen.
That's the reason why there are five
guards because they're extremely uh
paranoid about orcs. This is going to be
him uh for now. These are the uh guards
surrounding him. They're obviously uh
very wary of him. It's it's safe to
assume that uh I I keep saying
Wilhilborg.
Vilborg is tied up. He doesn't have any
weapons or armor or anything like that.
So, it's just him. uh these guys, these
guards in a small town. Seems reasonable
to assume that they don't have a lot of
armor or weapons. And frankly, if they
do, I'm dead cuz I can't really take out
five of them. Uh so here's the thing.
The first thing we have to do is you can
see over here,
this is where I've put myself. So I've
decided that I'm sort of hiding behind
the rocks there as they are moving up to
the gallows, which is going to be over
here. Okay. So here's the first thing
I'm going to do. I'm going to see if I'm
successfully stealththed. So, I've got
my three bennies here uh in case I need
them. I hope I don't. I look at my
stealth, which is a d8. And I roll my D8
and my wild die as well. And I'm looking
for four or more basically seven. No
problem. It's not quite a raise, but
it's okay. These guys are going to be
taken completely unawares, which is
excellent. So, uh here's a question. Did
Simon get a chance? He knew this was
happening. He was watching from afar.
So, did he get a chance to lay a trap? I
think that's likely. He has survival.
So, let's say uh that Simon decided as
this was happening in town, he realized
what's was happening that Vilborg was
being uh um found guilty and that he
overheard, you know, the people in the
village square saying, "We will take
them to the cattle." So, he ran out here
to intercept them to to beat them to the
bunch and he decided to set up a couple
of like snares and stuff. So, here's the
thing. He's going to make a survival
check to see if he successfully made
enough snares. And if so, uh, we'll say
he makes one snare on a success and then
one for every raise he gets. Okay. And
we have a failure. Zero snares. He was
unable to make any snares before they
showed up. That's not good. So, what's
the other thing that he can try? Well,
what does he have? He doesn't have a
whole lot. He's got a torch, flint, and
steel. Not a whole lot of things. Okay.
Well, here's the thing. So, Simon Simon
is waiting in the in the in the rocks
and he's seeing he's seeing his friend
Vilborg being marched towards the
gallows. the men around him are far more
interested in uh the the halfwork. Uh
they're they're far more afraid of him
than anything else. However, that said,
there is a chance that said that said
there is a chance I think probably a
decent chance that at least one of them
is wary. I'm going to say it's probably
unlikely at this point. So the answer is
72. No. So they are not paying any
attention which is good. That means that
Simon can get the drop on them. So, he
is going to draw back with his bow and
take a bead on the lead guy fully within
close range. No penalties for range
there. So, he's going to roll his
shooting skill, but he's going to be
rolling with his wild eye as always. And
he's going to be rolling with a plus
four to hit and damage. Brutal. So, uh
these guys are all just normal guards.
They're wearing probably leather armor.
They've got short swords, you know, uh
maybe even spears, you know, short
swords and spears. That seems maybe not
even shortsords actually. No, they've
just got spears. It just makes more
sense that they've got spears except for
the lead guy. Let's say the main guy
actually has like a battle axe. Okay,
he's the sergeant that's leading this
small troop of of soldiers. So, uh yeah.
So, Simon from his perch and the rocks
draws back
takes his time. He waits for it. He
waits for it. He tracks. He tracks the
leader and then let's fly with Well, he
does hit with the plus four. Thank god.
He will hit. Bang. But he will take him
completely by surprise. The long bow
does uh 2d6 damage plus four because
he's got the drop on him. Oh wow. Eight.
So eight damage against his toughness.
His normal toughness is going to be uh
uh five. And he has one point of leather
armor. So six. That means it's enough to
shake him basically, but that's about
it. That was the drop round. Not
particularly great. We're going to deal
out the cards now. So, Simon is on Jack,
and he's quick, so he actually can uh
discard five or less. The um the guards
now go on two. Well, that's great. Uh
halfwork goes on uh Simon's turn cuz
he's a uh he's an ally of mine. So
Simon, who has now revealed his position
of the rocks, is going to fire again.
This time he's going to fire at the
closest guard here with the spear. He
draws back and fires. That's two ammo as
well. He's expended. So he fires.
There's no bonus this time. It's just a
straight up. He does hit. So he'll 2d6
damage now. Plus four eight over a
toughness. So six will shake him as
well. The arrow buries itself into the
guard. He drops to the ground onto one
knee. really.
At this point, Simon shouts to um to I'm
going to get this name right eventually.
I'm sure of it. Vilborg. Vilborg. Simon
shouts to to to Vilborg. Vilborg, you
must Vilborg. Is that the voice I
picked? That's the voice. Vilborg, you
must free yourself and aid me to aid you
in your escape. Vilborg looks back, sees
Simon in the rocks, grunts, you know,
uh, in in in in agreement, and proceeds
to try and break his rope bonds. So,
he's going to do a strength test. Going
to call this just a straight up strength
roll. He is not a wild card. He does not
get the wild die. He's looking for four.
He does it. Bang. That's his action,
though. And as soon as that happens, he
runs his 6 in towards the rocks. They
now act. Let's deal with these two
shaken guys. These guys are all straight
up D6s. There's nothing special about
them. So, uh, they're looking for fours
here to see if they can get up. One of
them does. That was him. So, he, uh,
burst off is shaken, but that's his
total action. This guy is still like,
he's kind of like shuddering from the
arrow. Uh, he cries out, "God, stop
them. Stop them. They're escaping."
Oh, thump. I know that. So, that was
them. These three, however, so he's just
gotten up. Uh, this guy's going to chase
after Vilborg and try and stab him. Um,
there's a good chance that these guys
are going to do the exact same thing.
This is not looking good. They've just
been issued a direct order by their
captain. They will do that. Uh, this guy
will not be able to attack cuz he's he's
uh more than 6 in away. All right, he
will be able to attack. He's going to
run another 3 in. So, he gets up to him,
but he's going to do a multi-action
penalty because he's running and
attacking at the same time, which means
he's going to attack with a minus two.
No. So, we rolled a one, so he fails.
Uh, yes. So, just so we know what's
going on over here. Simon is still in
the rocks. Uh, the leader is still
shaken. Uh, this guy has just gotten to
his feet. Uh, and, uh, these two are now
stabbing at the fleeing half orc. Um,
with their spears, normal hits. Ooh,
exploding die is not looking good.
Seven. Uh, his parry is six, so he will
be hit. So, 2d6 damage against his
toughness of six. Oh my god. out of 10.
13 versus toughness of six is not good.
Six shakes him. 10 wounds him. So he
will um be down by that. Ooh, that's bad
news. That's really bad news. He gets So
Vilborg, this could be the end of
Vilborg already. Vilber is running
towards Simon in the rocks when one of
the guards comes up. Ah, and jabs a
spear in his back.
He cries out in pain and collapses.
Blood pouring from his wound. He's
writhing on the ground. Is he dead? Is
he alive? Who can say not I certainly
for I am but a player?
In any event, it's all bad news. They've
all acted and now it is time to go back
to initiative.
He's on nine. Oh god. And they're on
ace. Okay. Well, this is not good. So,
first of all, the leader the leader is
going to try and uh recover from shaken
with a spirit roll. He does not. He's
still gasping the arrow sort of sticking
out of his his left shoulder. Um, they
can all act. So, I'm going to say that
two of them throw the spears. These two
guys in the back throw their spears and
these guys clamber up the rocks to try
and get at him. So, we'll do the thrown
spears first. Uh, they have to hit on
fours. Oh my god, it's a hit and
explode. Um, so that's eight. That's a
hit with a raise. Oh my god, this is
going to be over real quick. So, a hit
and a hit with a raise. Wow,
this is brutal.
So, the hit, the normal hit is going to
be five damage. Uh, his toughness is
six. So, that first spear does nothing.
Uh, doesn't pierce the armor. The second
one is a hit with the rays,
unfortunately. Oh my god. This is
toughness of six. Um, 10 versus six.
Yeah, that's going to that's going to
shake and wound him. Unfortunately, he's
going to do a vigor check to soak the
wound. He's Oh, exploding six. 10. 10.
He needed four. So, he soaks one, two,
which means he eliminates all the
wounds. He is not wounded and he is not
shaken, which is very important. So,
he can actually attack. So, he it cost
him a benny to do that silk roll when he
got hit. But right now, dudes in front
of him. He must unfortunately
either try and disengage and get the
hell out of here at basically abandoning
his halfwork friend. This is a disaster.
Um or he's going to try and fight this
guy off. I think he's going to fight
this guy off. He drops his bow for free.
Pulls his sword, which is which which is
an action unfortunately. And attack. So
he's going to be attacking at minus two.
He's not particularly good. These guys
parries are all at um uh five. This is
not He basically has to explode. He did
6 + 5 is 11 - 2 is 9. That is definitely
a hit with arrays. So his damage with
his long sword d68 and the extra rays.
The damage is going to be 10 versus his
toughness of five. He skewers him,
which is good. Great news. Okay. And
that brings us back to initiative. Boom.
They get a queen. Simon gets an eight.
Oh, this is all bad. This guy moves.
Actually, let's deal with the shaken
dudes first.
Uh, so the leader the leader is trying
to shake or recover from shaking. Yes,
he'll do it. Six and nine is a is a
success with a raise. So, he can he gets
out and he can act. So, they can all act
right now. So, he has an axe.
Here's a question. Is Is he just a a
total total bastard? Is he going to is
he going to run up and uh end the
halfforc who he sees as the real threat?
I think there's a pretty good chance.
Actually, I'm going to call it likely.
And our ask our fate chart here. 44.
Yeah, I don't know why I do this to
myself, but there it is. The dice don't
lie. He runs up the havoc or squirming
on the ground and he comes up and he
buries his ax in his skull, performing a
cudigra and killing
Philborg of the strange name. Simon sees
this, having just felled his one foe,
and cries out, "No,
Phil.
Meanwhile, this guy moves his six up to
him on the rocks and will attack
this guy. These two have both thrown
their spears. So, they don't actually
have their spears right now. So, they're
going to run up to their spears
basically and recover them. And that'll
be their action. So, this guy runs up
and he stabs his spear with a four and
he will miss. Uh, which finally brings
us back to Simon. Simon knows all is
lost at this point. This is really bad.
His friend has just been murdered. He's
still hopelessly outnumbered. So, I
think he's got to get out of here. Okay,
so he moves down the hill, which is
going to provoke an attack of
opportunity, which is a four, which will
miss, thank goodness. He is then going
to roll his d6 for his running, which is
going to be two. So, he's going to roll
8 in this way. At this point, it's fair
to say that uh these guys are going to
chase him. So, I'm going to give them a
group roll of uh what what shall we call
this? He has a distinct advantage cuz
he's in the deep woods. He's sort of a
ranger guy. So, I'm going to give him
This is going to be oppose survival
roles. So, uh oppose survival rolls. So,
what what do we have here? We have Simon
who's going to roll. Oh my god. I'm
going to spend a Benny to roll the whole
thing cuz I have to make this or else
I'm pretty much dead. Still failed. Do
you spend your last Benny on it? Do you
spend your last Benny on another roll? I
have to. Have to. And I'm out of
benny's. Oh boy.
Five. Okay. Well, that's that. And then
these guys as a group are rolling.
They've got to be five. It's a tie,
which means that they all run through
the woods. Nothing done. They keep
crashing through the brush, crashing
through the brush. Um,
uh, Simon still has the advantage here
in the woods. So, it's again, it's an
opposed survival role as he's sort of
like, uh, ducking between trees, trying
to double back on them, trying to, uh,
lose them, trying to cover up his trail,
all that kind of stuff. Uh, okay. Okay,
what happens here? His survival role is
a four and theirs is a three. So, he is
able to outrun them. Finally, he loses
his pursuers in the woods, but his
friend, his childhood friend, his old
friend Vilborg, the fighter, has been
killed, has been executed, but not in
the way that we all thought. We thought
he, you know, uh, he was going to be led
to the gallows, but in fact, he was axed
in the head, which leaves Simon alone in
the woods outside of a hostile town
whose guards now know that he is there
somewhere.
They'll be on a hunt for him, a posi, if
you will. But for the moment, he is
safe. And I believe that closes our
scene. Vilborg is dead. We know that the
threads uh so escape. We're going to
give the name of this town, this this
village on the edge of the woods. We're
going to call it uh Carps Carpsburg.
And I'll add that as a uh character as
well. Yeah. So, he's got to escape
Karpsburg forest. Now, here's the other
thing. We have characters as well as the
Karpsburg posi. Uh, I think that the
leader here deserves uh um we'll call
him uh um Garrick.
Garrick the sergeant of the guards who
killed killed Vilberg. So Simon has lost
his friend. He has taken some bad licks.
He that was disastrous. That was a
disastrous way to open. He's being
chased by an angry posi of uh the the
soldiers of uh Carpsburg as well as
their sergeant Garrick. He will have to
escape the situation next time in scene
two.
Hey, welcome back to Me myself and die.
I am Trevor Deval, your intrepid host,
your intrepid player, your intrepid GM.
When last we left Simon of Augustan, he
had just fled a bunch of uh angry town
guards who were trying to lead his
friend Vilborg Vilborg to the gallows
for a crime he did not commit. After an
abortive attempt to try and save
Vilborg, Simon um well, it was abortive,
so he failed, didn't he?
It was bad. It was quite awful. Let's
just admit it. So, yeah, Vilborg is dead
is the long and the short of it. And
Simon has now been forced to flee into
the woods being chased by the posi. So
we're going to pick it up there uh with
our scene setup being in the forest
evading the Carpsburgg posi. Posi makes
it sound like it's sort of a root and
tootin kind of setting and I do not mean
to imply that that is what we are going
for cuz we are not. This is still very
bog standard you know Lord of the Rings
sort of uh setting. So, uh, let's not
get too, you know, like riled up over
the word posy, okay? I don't want to
make this a western cuz it is not. Let's
see what happens
with uh
the mythic GM emulator. The first thing
we got to do is come up with the scene
setup. Well, we already know what that
is, which is Simon alone in the forest
evading the posi trying to escape them.
So, that's the scene setup. So, the
first thing we're going to do is we roll
a 1d10. a tiny little tiny.
I've really cut back on the amount of
dice I had here before because it was
just it's too much, man. Too many dice.
So, we're going to roll at 1 10 and see
if the scene is modified or altered. So,
basically, right now, the chaos factor
is set at six. It was at five in the
first episode, but it's gone up now
because things were basically out of
Simon's control at the end of the scene.
So, that means that now the chaos factor
is six. 1d10. We're rolling against the
chaos factor to see two two.
Yes, that means something happens. So
that means it is an interrupt scene.
This is an entirely different and
unexpected scene than the scene setup. H
the characters were on their way to the
scene setup, but the interrupt scene
preempts it. So basically what we're
going to do is create a random event
that interrupts the scene of Simon
trying to escape the posy. We're going
to roll uh percentiles to determine the
event focus which is going to be 29. And
over here that means introduce a new
NPC. Very interesting. And now we roll
on the table for action and subject. So
we are going to be rolling here and the
event meaning is going to be six which
is triumph
over 83. Triumph of riches. The first
thing I can think of is a bounty hunter.
So we we've established last time last
time in scene one when last we saw Simon
and Vilborg,
>> we saw that uh there there was a bounty
on orcs. So Vilborg was being led off to
the gallows. Simon tried to rescue him
but failed. He runs away into the woods
and stumbles across a bounty hunter who
was coming after Vilborg himself before
the law got him. Yeah, that's kind of
cool. Okay, so he comes triumph of
riches. You know what also that implies?
I think that this bounty hunter was
going has been tracking Vilborg and
Simon for a number of days. Uh Vilborg
because he's an orc and Simon because
he's a friend to an orc. The bounty was
not only on orcs. The bounty was also on
those who those who uh uh comport with
orcs. It's not comport. What is it?
Those who covert. Those who covert with
orcs. Yes. Yes. So, there's a bounty on
orc orders
and orcs. So, this guy shows up. This
bounty hunter shows up. Simon runs into
him uh in the woods. So, let's find out
a little about this guy cuz we know
nothing about him. In order to do that,
we are going to go to another really
cool little thing that I have right
here. This is the UN Universal NPC
emulator. And I will of course provide a
new link to that in the the doobly-doo.
Thanks, buddy. The first thing we do is
determine what the NPC is. We roll a
modifier and a and a noun. Revolting.
Revolting. That's a good start.
Revolting expert. Oh, that actually
makes a lot of sense. Revolting expert.
Oh, so right away this bounty hunter, he
is Joe antisocial. He He's got like like
wild hair, but he's got like big like
scars and warts on his face. He's just
awful. He's just he's rude. He's
physically repulsive. If he stinks to
high heaven, lordy low. His power level
is the next thing we determine. So what
I do is I roll percentyl to determine
the comparative power level of this
bounty hunter. Is he weaker than me? Is
he the same strength as me? Or is he
much tougher? Uh so rolling on 339 is
going to give us comp comparable. So
he's he's comparable, comparable. You
know, I went through my whole life not
knowing which that was comparable.
Comparable. Anyway, whatever. He's the
same as me now. His motivations. Well,
we've got a pretty good sense of what
the guy's motivations is. He's coming
after Vilborg and Simon. But here's the
thing. He already knows that that
Vilborg has been found guilty. So, why
is he still going after Vilborg andor
Simon? Is he looking for Simon just
because Simon, he perceives Simon as
being as guilty as uh Vilborg because
Simon is a uh orc collaborator?
Collaborator. That's the word I was
looking for. Yay. So, we determine his
motivations. Uh so this is uh a lot like
determining a random event from mythic.
This revolting expert, this hideous
revolting bounty hunter. First
motivation is going to be 86. Refine
refine the wealthy. Refine the wealthy.
He is working for a patron. He is
specifically working for someone who Oh,
I know what this is. He is working for
Simon's minor enemy that we determined
in the first session from his
background. Great. The bounty hunter is
working for the minor enemy. I want a
name for this bounty hunter. So, once
again, we're going to go to the good old
Zanithar's guide here. Ar. I like that.
Ar. Ar. What? Ar. Let's go to the old
perilous perilous worlds book to get
another name. Uh, Ar 11. Calapounki. Ar.
Calapunki. The revolting expert who is
working for the minor enemy, which we
don't know anything about yet. We
haven't determined that. Let's um let's
do that. A name for the minor enemy.
Well, Simon is sort of English. Has the
English name. Let's do the English name
there. Um, let's determine if the enemy
is a male or female. So, equal chance of
each one to five if it's a male. Okay,
so it's a guy. Uh, English male names.
Manfred. I'm going to give him a just
arbitrarily going to decide he's sort of
a noble. Manfred of
of uh uh Wayne's cutting. That's an old
Montipython reference. Manfred of uh
Dovedane. Manfred of Dovedane has hired
Arn Calapunki to track down Simon
specifically. Great. So that's what we
know. He's coming after him. But I want
a little more detail cuz maybe it's not
quite as cut and dried as well while
he's coming after him. He's going to
take him in. You know, maybe there's
something else going on here. So let's
find out what that is. Uh 21. Shepherd.
Oo. Shepherd the downtrodden. Okay. What
that means to me is that Arin Calapunki
is revoling, but he's not necessarily
revoling in terms of his motivations. I
think the reason why he's he's decided
to work for Manfred of Doved and go
after Simon is because Arn believes that
Simon did something horrible to like a
bunch of downtrodden folks. For whatever
reason, Aaron believes that Simon is
like a really bad dude and that much
like Vilborg, you know, uh has been
misaligned by the town people, Simon has
also been misaligned by the people that
he comes from. And maybe that's part of
the reason why he's an outsider. Oh,
look at that. The little connection
right there. For some reason, something
terrible happened to the bigger
population there, and Simon was to
blame. We don't know any details about
this yet, but that's fine. We might find
that out as we go. So, my first question
for the mythic GM emulator is AR
actively hunting Simon? I think it's
very likely he's hunting Simon,
actually. So, we're going to roll here
and get a 01.
Yeah. Well, he's most definitely hunting
uh Simon. And so much so that I think
he's laying a trap for Simon. So, here's
the thing. Let's set the scene. Simon
running through the woods. He's He's
being chased by the posy. He He takes
shelter under a tree, a large spruce
tree. and wipes his brow, mops the sweat
off his brow. He looks behind him. He
doesn't see the posy. He He thinks he's
put a lot of distance between him and
them. He He sits he pulls out a dagger
that Vilborg had given him when when
they had first met. And Gil Vilbour had
said to him, you know, this is a sign of
my eternal friendship. Take this knife
and this will always show that you and I
are inseparable. So he pulls that knife
now as he's he's underneath the the uh
afternoon sun coming down to the trees
creating sort of a dappled shadowy light
and he pulls the knife out. Vilborg.
Vilborg, my old friend. I have failed
you. I have failed you.
I will avenge you
somehow. I will avenge you. He puts the
knife away and gets back to his feet and
goes through the trees. Now that as we
push through the trees and we see in the
trees there is Arn looking at him. Has
Arn set a trap? Absolutely. The real
question now for Savage Worlds is does
Simon
become aware of it. So he's going to do
a perception check or a notice check as
it's called. Unfortunately his notice
sucks. It's only D4. And here we go. He
gets a four. So four,
he gets a four, which means that that is
successful. So he he's moving through
the woods, still uh casting a glance
over his shoulder to make sure he's not
being followed when he stops and he
senses something. Here's a question for
the fake chart. What kind of trap is it?
Is it one of those classic like like man
traps with the rope? You step on the
rope and you get all hoisted up in the
trees. Let's find out. I have no idea.
Um I'll say it's 50/50. Chaos Factor 6.
Is it that kind of trap? Yes, it is that
kind of trap. So, Simon puts his foot
down. He stops. He looks down. He sees
very carefully disguised under the
branches and the dead fall. He can see
just this thick rope in a telltale
formation that says it's a trap. He's a
ranger. He knows these things. And he
realizes, uh-oh, something's about to go
down here. So, we know that Orin is
closely following him, right? We got a
01. He's definitely tracking him. He
sees Simon through the woods. Simon
stops.
Realizes the trap's there. Arn Arn
realizes, "Uh-oh,
he is on to me." So, what's AR going to
do? Does Arn attack? Does he try and
compel him to surrender? Here's the
thing. I think that's a good question. I
don't think that Arn wants to kill
Simon. Arin is a bounty hunter after
all. He wants to bring Simon in. I think
he's going to try and intimidate him.
How does he do that? By firing an arrow
right into the tree right beside Simon's
head.
So, he's comparable skill, which means
that he's going to have the exact same
skill levels as Simon. Uh, Simon
shooting his D8. So, I think Arn is also
a wild card in Savage Worlds Parlament.
That means that he is just like a PC. He
has he has bennies. He's a he rolls a
wild die, all that kind of stuff. So
he's trying to shoot beside Simon's
head.
Does he do it? Oh god. Exploding eight.
Boom. Eight and nine. Success with a
raise. So Simon, oh, you know, he
freezes. It's this arrow
right there. He turns. He sees Arn. Arin
there with his bow who's already pulled
another arrow from it. And Arin shouts
out, "That is far enough, my old friend.
Don't make me shoot you. I wish to bring
you in, not to slay you. But make no
mistake. I will slay you if I have to.
What a strange voice he has. Let's go
with that one. Simon stops and sees him.
Now, does Simon know that he's being
followed? I have no idea. Let's go to
the fate chart. Does Simon know he's
being followed? I I think it's some I
think it's unlikely, actually. So, we're
going to roll our dice here. 45.
Yes, he actually does. So he knows he's
being followed and he knows who this is.
So he stops and he turns and he says,
"Well, an I see you finally caught up
with me. I suppose you think you're
going to turn me into the authorities.
That is what you bounty hunters do,
isn't it?
You know precisely what I am doing here.
You will be made to pay for your crimes.
Manfred of Dovedane has seen that this
will be so.
Manfred of Dovedane.
You're wasting your time working for
him. Aren't he's still got his bow like
drawn and he moves towards uh Simon.
Just slowly, carefully.
[Music]
I am going to throw down some manacles
in front of you. You will pick those up
and put them on. If you do not, I will
feather you where you stand. You know I
can do it. I don't think Simon's going
to just uh allow himself to be captured
though. So he he still had his bow in
his hand. An I make you a counter
proposal.
Why don't you throw the medicals on the
ground? Put them on yourself and I will
let you walk out of here. On laughs.
There will be no bartering right now. Or
will there? Let's see.
I'm going to do a persuasion roll. This
is a long shot. This is a total long
shot. So, he's going to roll a persuade,
but because he's an outsider, his his
persuade is minus two to his role, which
really sucks cuz he doesn't have
persuasion. So, what that means is he's
rolling a d4 and a d6. Minus two for the
fact he doesn't have the skill. And then
another minus two because of the fact
that he's an outsider. His charisma
sucks. So, basically, if he doesn't
explode on this, he's going to fail. And
Arn is going to have to take more
drastic measures. So, Simon says, "What
do you say to my proposal?" Ah,
intimidation. Here we go.
Oh, it's an exploder. This could work.
Okay. Exploded an ad. 10 - 2 - 4 is 6.
It's not a success with a raise, but it
is a success. Amazing. So, he says this.
Um, Arn kind of looks at him. How do I
know you have the balls to do what you
say you will do? Simon just smiles at
him. Come now on. You know as well as I
do the supposed crimes I'm guilty of. Do
you think if I was to do all of those
terrible things to that group of beggars
back in the city that I wouldn't do such
things to you as well?
Arin
stops
looks around, thinks better of it.
Perhaps he thinks Simon isn't alone out
here. Perhaps he has other allies. Why
is Simon so confident when clearly he
shouldn't be? He's cocked dead to
rights. Arn, however, is persuaded or
intimidated. He steps back,
still training the bow on uh on Simon.
This isn't over. Not by a long shot.
You may have won. You may have won this
round, Simon of Argustin. No, he
definitely does not say that. This is
not over, Simon of Argustin.
You and I will meet again, and when we
do, you will be coming back with me to
face judgment. And with that, he fades
into the woods. Wow. Wow.
Well, that was very interesting. And I
think that basically brings us to the
end of scene two, which is kind of cool.
So, we had we had an interrupt scene.
We've updated our character list. We've
got Arn Calapunki, the bounty hunter,
who is working for Manfred of Dovedane.
We we add a new thread as well. Arn is
hunting Simon for Manfred. Manfred, he
sounds like a vampire. Manfred von
Cararstein. And now the chaos factor.
The question is, did the chaos factor go
up or down? Well, Simon was largely in
control of this. He started off not in
control, but he ended up in control. So
the chaos factor goes back down to five.
So now we go back to scene three. Simon
is still in the forest trying to outrun
the posi. So as usual, we roll a 1d10
against the chaos factor which is now
five. Does it play out? Ah, it is in
fact an altered scene. He just can't
seem to escape. He can't seem to get to
the scene where he's escaping the posi.
Let's ask the chart. Does he does Simon
come across a lone scout who is looking
for him? I'm going to call that uh
likely. Chaos factor back down to five
and it's 99.
Extraordinary. No.
So, either he doesn't come across
anybody or he he encounters a whole
bunch of them. You know what? If he
encounters a whole bunch of them, we're
just going to go to a big combat scene
that he's probably gonna have to flee
again anyway. So, I think the more
interesting option is not only does he
not run into a sing single scout,
something happens to to alter the course
of his escape. And you know what that
something is? He's just finished his
conversation with uh Arn Ar has melted
the woods. Simon in the distance behind
him hears he's I think he's over here.
He hears the the posi coming back. So,
Simon, oh no. He picks up his bow again
and hightails it as fast as he can away
from the sound as as well as away from
where Aren had disappeared to. and he
trips and falls into a ravine which was
completely hidden by a bunch of like
bracken and fallen logs and stuff. He
falls and collapses into a ravine. Where
does this lead? Let's find out. 50/50.
Uh chaos rank five. 50/50. Does he fall
into this ravine and at the bottom of
the ravine does he find like a cave
entrance? 60. No. So it's there's no
cave entrance. So he falls at the bottom
of this ravine smashing himself on
either side as it goes bang bang bang
bang bang. Does he get injured from
this? Is there water at the bottom of
the ravine? Uh, let's call it likely. 21
on vector 5. Yes, there is water. So,
it's not a it's not a big giant raging
river cuz that would have been ex
exceptional. Yes. Uh, but this is just a
yes. So, there is water. So, he falls
into water, which is going to help uh
reduce the number of dice damage dice
rolled by half. Well, let's see how far.
Um, I'm going to say it's it's 10 to 40
ft. And it Oh, it's 40 ft. Luckily, he
falls into water. However,
oh my god, he's going to roll 4d6 + 4,
but it's actually haved cuz he falls
into water. Thank god. 2d6 + 2 is going
to be 5 + 2 is 7 versus toughness.
You know, when you you fall on water on
your back, that's just like hitting
concrete, man. Like, pow. That's what
happens. Not enough to actually do any
real damage to him, but it's enough to
like to like shake him a bit. So, here's
the thing. He's in this water. It's deep
enough to have broken his fall, but it's
not a raging river or anything like
that. So, I don't think he's in danger
of drowning right now, but he is shaken.
So, as he kind of his his head comes up
from the water, he's gasping for breath.
He's got to do a spirit roll to come out
of shaken, which is d6 and the wild die.
And it's going to be five. So, yes, he
succeeds thankfully. Uh he's he kind of
struggles a bit, but he's able to sort
of, you know, steal himself. Maybe he
grabs onto a fallen log that's floating
along beside him. Grabs it and he's able
to kind of hang on to it. The water
carries him down this twisting ravine
flanked on either side with uh forested
cliffs. And as he looks back behind him,
he can just see the posi at the far edge
of the cliff. They see him, they shout,
now they don't have bows, remember? They
have spears. And I think he is way, way,
way too far by this time. He's fallen 40
feet down. He's already moved for a full
round this way at probably like 30 feet
around. He's moving pretty quick. Se
There's no way they can hit with the
spears. Eventually, Simon sees them
recede around the corner as he gets
carried down this water. Wow. Okay, so
that was scene three. We had an altered
scene where he fell into a ravine. So,
he has successfully sort of outrun the
posi, although not in a way that we
expected. uh and and he managed to
survive it. So that that's actually the
end of scene three. We've got no new
characters, but we have completed a
thread. We have escaped the Carpsburg
forest at this point. So we're going to
cross that off. Just like that.
Just like that. The chaos factor. Was he
in control or not? Uh I think it was out
of control cuz that was unexpected. So
we're going to put the chaos factor back
up to six. This leaves us with uh Simon
in a river twisting through a
mountainous ravine.
I guess Carpsburg is a mountain town.
Great. Now we know that of a thick pine
and spruce forest outside of a mountain
town. Now what does he do at the
beginning of scene 4? I think the setup
here is he
yeah he he wants revenge. He knows that
Arin is after him. He wants revenge, but
he knows that he can't do this by
himself. He is going to have to find
allies. That's the scene setup for scene
four. So, as we go into scene four, we
roll the chaos factor and we roll seven.
So, it's above the chaos factor of six.
So, nothing changes the scene. So, we go
to our fake chart now because the
question is maybe there is somewhere
he's going to stumble across. I'm going
to call it unlikely actually at this
point is going to be 34, which is a yes
answer. So, there is a hunter's cabin
that he stumbles across. So, he's soaked
to the bone. He's achy. He's got massive
bruises. Maybe, you know, a rib got
displaced as he was banging down the
ravine wall. So, he's walking through
the woods when he comes across a
hunter's cabin. He sees it.
He's exhausted. He's looking for allies.
We need to know who's in the cabin. So,
we go to the fate chart. Is there
someone dangerous in the cabin right
now? I have no idea. 50/50 chance. Chaos
factor six
95.
Extraordinarily
no. There is not someone dangerous. I
think an extraordinary no result means
there's someone friendly, which is great
cuz that's what he's looking for. So, he
makes his way up to the cabin carefully.
He's got his arrow knocked, but he
doesn't want to draw it. He doesn't want
to look like he's some, you know,
attacker. I keep looking at the screen
beside the camera. I should be looking
at you, camera. Hello, camera. So, he's
moving up towards the cabin. He's going
to try and stalk. He's going to try and
sneak up there. D8 and a D6. Well,
really good for like a first level
character. Four. Success. So, he's able
to stalk quietly up to the cabin.
Are there windows? Well, that's the fake
chart. Why not? That's That's what it's
for. Chaos Vector 6. I think it's uh uh
a nearure thing there's going to be
windows. 50. Yeah, definitely definitely
windows that he can actually see in. So,
he sneaks up around and he kind of peers
inside. We know that there's someone
friendly in there, but we know nothing
about this person. So, let's go to our
handydandy Un
NPC generator.
And who is this NPC? 76. Needy.
I'm going to write these notes down
here. Needy.
That's a good start.
Needy 11. Needy Drifter.
I love it. He's a friendly needy
drifter.
What's his comparative power level? Oh,
he's slightly weaker. And what else do
we know about him? Motivation.
Motivation. Motivation over here.
Motivation is going to be 01. Advise.
Advise freedom. H. Motivation is to
advise freedom. And let's let's do
another one here. Persecute
slavery. Oh. Oh, this is great. Advise
freedom. Persecute slavery.
This is great. You know what I think
this is?
I love this. He's a needy drifter. So,
this is not his cabin. This is not his
cabin at all. I know enough about the
sky already. It's awesome. He has come
across this cabin. And you know why?
Well, let me tell you. Don't tell why.
Let me tell you why. He's come across
this cabin, this needy drifter who was
slightly weaker. You know why he's
slightly weaker? Cuz he's wounded. He's
wounded. Why is he wounded? Because he's
an orc. Advised freedom and persecute
slavery. He is an escaped orc from the
jail sales of Karpsburg
who was on deck to be tried and executed
like any other. But he's not a half orc.
He's a real orc. So, Simon sees this
wounded orc who's clearly suffering from
like a big gash in his side and he's
lying on one of the It's like a simple
one room hunter's cabin, like a hunter's
lodge, right? Really, really simple. And
he is in a cot and he's sort of lying in
the cot over here. That's the door. He's
come up to the window. He sees the orcs
uh uh lying there. Let's get the orc's
name because why not? Maybe that's going
to be my signature move. Why not?
Orc names. Morde. Awesome. Morde. So,
we're adding an NPC. Morde. The orc.
Simon sees him.
He very carefully stealths his way over
to the door. Is there a lock on this
door? That's really the question, Jimmy.
That's the question, Jimmy. on a
hunter's cabin in the woods? Probably
not. Very unlikely. Chaos factor 6. Uh
32. Oh, yes. There is a lock in the
door. So, it's locked. So, he can't just
go in. He can't really pick the lock. He
knocks on the door. That makes perfect
sense.
The orc Simon immediately says, "My
friend, my friend, I see you are
wounded. I am not your enemy. I am in
need of rest myself. and my name is
Simon of Aguguston. I have recently ran
a fowl of the soldiers of Copsburg to at
which point the orc's ears kind of perk
up.
Copsburg.
Yes. Yes. Please let me in. I can help
you. I can try and heal your wound. This
is a persuasion test. So, normally uh I
would give the outsider penalty, but in
this case, there's a couple of
outsiders, so I don't think it applies
to the orc in this case. So, Simon is
going to make a persuasion test, which
he sucks at, which he definitely sucks
at. Uh, so he gets a minus two from not
having this skill.
Oh, exploding four.
Oh, exploding four. 8. Exploding 4 8 12
16
20
21 minus 2 is all the raises in the
world. Uh, is 16. the three raises on
his persuade roll. So
the orc nods enthusiastically.
His wound is in bad shape. He gets up.
He goes over, opens the door.
He's got a knife in his hand, a shiv.
Actually, it's not even really a knife.
He's an escape prisoner. He doesn't have
any arm or anything like that, but he's
got this shiv. Simon puts his bow on his
back, his hands up like this. It's all
right, my friend.
It's all right. Let me help you. What is
your name? He looks at him.
My name is Mor. I am Orc kind. Yes,
Morde. I can see that. I was dear
friends with a half orc. May I come in
and help you? Yes, please. Please. It
hurts.
Three raises. Oh my god. So he comes in,
locks the door behind him. It kind of
collapses the more it collapses on the
bed. Simon comes over. Let me see if I
can tend your wound with my healing,
which I actually have.
Good thing I took the skill. He tries to
do a healing check on him. He's not able
to do anything with him right now. So,
he applies some puses and bandages the
wound as best he can, but you know, Mort
Mort's still in bad shape. He says, "Uh
uh, how how long have you been here in
this cabin?" Mort.
Knock says Mor.
Well, is he recently escaped? I think
that's a sure thing. Is he recently
escaped? 49ers. Yes, he's recently
escaped. Did he kill somebody on the way
out?
I think it's likely. Did Morg kill
someone on the way out? Yes, he did. I
had to dispatch one of the humans. I
took a terrible wound in doing so. But
now they will surely try and capture me.
Yes, Morwell, I understand. But I myself
am being chased by a group of soldiers
who murdered my friend. Perhaps together
we can fight them and take revenge on
them. Yes, Morde wishes to escape this
place. But since you have made an
unbelievable persuasion rule, Morde will
help you do this thing. But first, I
must rest. I am in no condition to
fight. Don't worry, Mort. I will tend
your wounds as best I can. Rest now. I
will go into the wilderness and hunt and
try and bring back some food. And
together, together
we will take our vengeance upon the
Copsburg militia. And that I think is a
great place to end scene four. So what
happened here? Well, we added an NPC,
Morde, the Orc ally, who is definitely
an ally now, which is fantastic. The new
threat is going to be take vengeance on
the militia, who are just doing their
jobs. Why do you have to be so mean?
We're just guards. And then the chaos
factor. Well, I think the chaos factor
goes down because he was largely in
control of the scene with that
unbelievable role of the persuasion,
which was awesome. That's good. So, that
brings us to the end of scene four,
which will bring us to scene five. I'm
not sure what happens in scene 5 yet,
but I'm going to expect that it's going
to be sometime later when Simon and
Morde have crept up to the town by night
and are preparing to take their revenge
on the Karpsburg town militia. We will
have to come back for that next time for
scene five.
Hey everybody, it's Trevor Deval here.
Welcome to Me, Myself, and Die. Thank
you so much for tuning in. And remember,
if you like the show, hit like and
subscribe. Really helps me out. This is
episode 3, moving into scene five when
last we left, Simon of Argistan. He had
recently escaped his uh encounter with
the Karpsburg militia, only to meet a
bounty hunter who was paid to come after
him for perceived crimes in his past.
And then falling down a ravine into a
river, which he barely escaped, he
encountered uh a wounded orc in a
hunter's cabin in the woods. Uh this
orc, whose name was Morud. This orc had
recently escaped the prisons of uh
Karpsburg. Prisons, that's a strong word
for it. Carpsburg is a tiny little
mountain village. So, the prisons is
probably nothing more than just one
single cage. Basically, they put, you
know, suspected criminals in until they
can deal with them. Nonetheless, Morton
escaped, but he had taken a wound and
killed a soldier on his way out. And so,
he's he was convinced that the Karpsburg
militia was coming after him. They both
decided that they could help each other
get revenge on the Karpsburg militia,
specifically on Sergeant Garrick, who
was on who was the one responsible for
killing Vilborg, Simon's old uh friend
and ally. And so what we're going to do
is we are going to pick it up on the
evening of a few days later. It's a new
moon. There's no stars. It's a very dark
night. And Simon and Mor have crept up
to the very edge of the village of
Karpsburg. Now, what these particular
buildings are, I'm not entirely sure.
They'll sort of reveal themselves as
they go. So, to begin, they are creeping
along and they have kind of scouted the
area a little bit. What they're trying
to determine is where is Sergeant
Garrick's
residence? Because really, that's what
Simon is interested in. He wants to get
in and get Sergeant Garrick. He's he's
not particularly interested in getting
the rest of the militia. They're just
soldiers just doing their jobs after
all. Uh Mort, on the other hand, is a
beastial orc, and he's a little more
savage and bloodthirsty than Simon is.
So Simon had a you know would have had a
conversation with him basically saying
you know Morde remember we are not here
to slay innocent people. We are here for
Getic. Sergeant get alone. Morde will
kill anyone in his way. Morde that is
not my way. Now if we're going to do
this we're going to do this properly.
You and I sneak into that town. We find
Getic and we administer justice to him
and then we get out without anyone else
getting killed. We shall see human. So,
we shall see. Now, they are here on the
edge of Karpsburg on a crisp summer's
night. It is a crisp summer's night as
opposed to a warm summer's night. Why?
Because it's in the mountains and at
night in the mountains things getting a
little chilly. It is a crisp summer's
night. Morde and Simon have crept up the
rock center now overlooking the village
of Karpsburg. They do not yet know where
uh Sergeant Garrick's residence is. Or
do they? Is it possible that while Mor
was healing and recovering from his
wounds that Simon was doing a little
reconnaissance work? A little little
reconnaissance work to just observe the
village from afar and try and get a
sense of the lay of the land kind of
thing. Try and determine where Sergeant
Garrick's residence would be. So, you
know what? We can quickly expedite this
with a role in the fate chart. I think
rather than going through a bunch of
roles uh with the Savage World system,
that will happen soon enough. Let's ask
the fate chart. Did Simon get a chance
over the past couple days to sus out the
village and get a basic sense of its
layout? Cuz remember, he's never
actually been there before. That was
Vilborg who went in, not uh Simon. And
if so, was he able to determine the
residence of of uh Garrick. Here's what
I do. I'm going to do a stealth roll for
Simon. The better he does uh on his
stealth roll, the easier it's going to
be on this chart. Let's do that, though.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That'll be cool.
That'll be awesome. He's rolling a d for
his stealth and seven. So that's a
success. It's not a success with a race.
So instead of 50/50, which is what I was
going to make it, I'm going to make it
somewhat likely. Chaos factor 5, we go
in here. Gives us 5% chance. 50. So yes,
he was able to sus out the area and he
was able to determine that one of these
buildings was in fact Garrick's
residence. Well, this is sort of the
largest building over here, this one. So
I'm going to assume that that is in fact
the one. Uh I'm going to call this very
likely. Is this building Sergeant
Garrick's residence? Extreme. Yes. So,
Simon was able to see Sergeant Garrick
coming out over the course of the day
talking to his men, talking to the
soldiers of Carpsburg, uh giving orders,
that kind of stuff. Also interacting
with some of the merchants and taking
back basically he's shopping taking back
his shopping to his uh to his home,
which is most definitely there. So, if
we have a look over here, we can see
that this is a bit of a farmstead uh
with the main door being actually way
over here by the tavern. So, they creep
up the rocks and their goal is to get
into
Sergeant Garrick's house and infiltrate
it without being seen. They begin to
slowly make their way down the rocks,
creeping as quietly as they can go,
ducking over this low wall and stalking
up to these barrels. Is there anybody
around? Well, actually, let's do a
perception first. Let's do a notice
roll. So, Simon's notice is terrible.
Terrible. Terrible. Does he see anything
in the street? Oh my god, look at that.
A six and a four. He's exploding. He's
exploding. Uh oh. A four. So that's
eight. Uh 9 10 11. 11. That's a success
with a raise. Almost two raises. So
Simon will definitely see somebody if
there's somebody there. Is there
somebody there? I have no idea. So it's
late at night. So there's probably not
anybody out cuz it's late at night.
They're coming they're coming into the
the town at this hour for a particular
reason. They don't want to be spotted. I
think it's going to be unlikely that
there's somebody out, but there might
be, right? Unlikely.
100. Ooh, wow. Well, obviously that's
extreme. No. Extreme no. There's nobody
out here at all. Nobody around. Okay.
They creep up.
They creep up to the uh
the the the barrels here and they look
around and they can see nothing. There
is nothing going on.
The town is eerily quiet. In fact, there
aren't even any lights on in the tavern.
There's no lights on in this house.
There's not even any lights on
in Sergeant Garrick's place. This is
extremely weird. And now Morid turns to
Simon and says, "Tell me, human, isn't
it normal for your kind who cannot see
in the dark to keep lights on in their
homes?" Yes, there are no lights on in
any of these buildings. That is most
unusual. We must investigate further. So
they begin to sneak their way
being very very cautious
here up to here up to the edge of the uh
the sistern. Simon is is a little little
uh little freaked out by this whole
development. He's going to again sneak
up
to the window and he peers inside.
There's no lights on, so he can't see
anything. But, and there's no starlight.
There's no moonlight, so he really,
really can't see anything. Is the window
latched? I think that's probably very
likely. I'm going to roll on this 21.
Yes. So, the window is latched. So, he
he tries to open the window, but it is
latched. He looks around here
at uh the rest of the square. Still
nobody around. I need to know what this
is all about, cuz this is very strange.
So, here's what I'm going to do. I am
going to basically roll a random event.
Okay. And we're going to determine what
the source or what the cause of this
whole weirdness is. So I'm going to roll
on my event focus table and we get 62
which is PC negative.
Something bad happens to Simon and abuse
100 abuse information.
Something has happened. I think this
whole town is under some sort of spell.
I think something has happened and the
something is in Garrick's house and
abuse of information.
Simon turns, motions to Mort, and Simon
makes his way all the way around here
to the door.
Morde
follows.
Is the door locked? Probably likely.
Still chaos factor 5 here. Yes, the door
is locked. Are any of the windows around
the house open? I'm going to say
probably unlikely for this. Uh 22. Oh,
yes. Uh so, one of the windows is in
fact open. I'm just going to determine
it randomly. We know that one's latched.
So, it's going to be 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. I'll
just roll a d8 and determine which one
it is. Six. It's this one. So, they go
around. The door is locked. They're They
go all the way around. They hop the
fence here. They open the window.
and pop inside.
Good. Now, what is inside? Here's where
we can go to our handy dandy Perilous
Wilds book, cuz uh this is great for
like random stuff. I'm going to roll on
the danger table here. And the danger
table is splits it up into all different
kinds of things. So, let's roll a d2 and
see what comes up on the danger table on
page 48 of Pearless Wild. It is a
creature. Okay. And what kind of
creature? What kind of creature is
responsible for casting a spell uh over
the entire town? This is really weird.
Is it a It's a three. So, it is a beast
of some sort. Oh, some sort of like
centipede. Some sort of weirdass
centipede
activity exploring this. this big giant
weird quasi magic centipede thing is
exploring which leads me to believe that
there is in fact a big hole in the
ground where this thing is burrowed up
from underneath. That's probably the
source of where all this this weirdness
has come. This is weird weird weird
weird and cool disposition of the beast
attacking. Well, that makes sense. We're
about to have a fight.
What else have we got here? Number
appearing in size. Okay, so there's a
group of these things and there's going
to be six of them in total. Okay, we
don't know if we're going to encounter
six of them, but there are six of them
in total. And finally, their size.
They're medium-sized, so they're
basically the size of a man. That's
creepy. These these giant centipede
looking man-sized things with some kind
of ability. We're presuming it's some
sort of sleep. So, there's two things
I'm thinking about these six sort of
man-sized centipede things. One is that
they have the power to emit some sort of
like sleep gas, which can take out large
groups of people. Or the other option is
the six of them have sort of split up
and are in each of these places and have
uh actually I think it's a combination
of both. I think that I think it its
power is is some sort of like uh it can
like
emit this sleep venom gas stuff that
causes people to to go out and then they
be they eat them. It's pretty gross.
This is bad. So, there's a big giant
hole in the floor when Simon and uh Mor
come creeping in. These creatures, these
centipedes, are going to have like uh
big claws and pincers and things like
this. They're going to be pretty brutal,
but they also have the ability to admit
the sleep gas as well. So, I'm just
going to quickly stat these guys up. I'm
just making this up as I go based on my
knowledge of Savage Worlds and based on
my knowledge of uh what we've determined
from the uh Perilous Wilds uh
supplements. So, yes, Simon and Mort
have snuck around the house, have found
an open window, and have snuck inside.
They've they've see as they crawl inside
the window, they see there they see
there's a big a big hole in the ground
right there and they're like, "What?"
And they hear this hideous like like
chittering this chittering and munching
sound. So, here's a question. As they
move forward,
have these things killed Sergeant
Garrick? That's the question that I'm
interested in. I'm going to say it's
very unlikely cuz he's pretty tough.
79. And the answer is no. So they have
not killed Sergeant Garrick. Uh but the
thing is attacking. So I think it's very
obvious that they come in and they hear
the sounds of combat as Sergeant Garrick
is battling with this thing from just
the other side of the room. They leap
over the uh they leap over the hole and
as they run around the side to see
what's going on there, they can see
Sergeant Garrick and he is locked in
combat with some hideous centipede
thing. Uh are there more than one here?
Uh that's likely there are six of them.
Five
factor 43. Yes, there are more than one.
He is locked in combat. Another one is
sort of on the bed right there with him.
He is fighting away, fighting away. At
this point, they burst in. Uh Simon
grabs his bow, knocks an arrow, and and
draws it towards him. Morid, I think,
puts a hand on his shoulder and says,
"No, let them let them take him. Let
them take him."
Oh, that's a that's a tempting It's a
tempting offer that Morud makes to let
these creatures take Sergeant Garrick.
So, Simon is cautious. This is a flaw of
his
cautious in this case. Does is he going
to allow his cautious nature to affect
him and basically walk out of here
thinking that his enemy is about to be
eaten by these hideous creatures? If if
he was to allow this cautious nature to
basically rob him of his vengeance, then
I would give him an extra penny. But um
he's not going to do that. He's going to
overcome his cautious nature because he
can't let he can't let this guy,
murderer of his friend as he is, he
can't let this guy be eaten by these
these monsters, by these creatures. He
is going to open up for this fight
alone. Uh, Sergeant Garrick is going to
be on the same initiative as Simon and
Morde. Interesting development. Did not
see this coming. So, we're going to roll
initiative. Roll initiative. Listen to
me. Like, it's DN D or something. No,
it's not Z and Z. It's Savage Wilds
where we use the cards. Simon is going
to be on the queen. The queen. And the
creatures are going to be on the four.
That is excellent. Excellent. And good.
And it is right. Let's deal with uh
let's deal with um Sergeant Garrick.
Yes. So, he's really good. He's got a
d10 fighting and he's got in this case,
he's not using his axe. He's using a
long sword. He is a wild card as well.
So, he gets his d6. He's going to attack
the closest one to me, the one on the
bed. He is going to hit. Bang. And he's
going to do
2d8 against their toughness of seven.
And he rule. Oh my god. 1419
versus toughness of seven. He splats it.
Brings his long sword down and bug guts
spatter across the room like like so
much green paste. Gross. Simon draws
back. Now, here's the thing. He is
firing into melee. So there's a chance
he could hit Garrick. Hey, he doesn't
really care though because Garrick he's
gonna kill him anyway. So he's he's
gonna fire. So if he rolls a one in the
shooting die, he's going to hit Garrick
instead. The shooting guy is the eight.
Oh, almost. He misses. Unfortunately,
Morde leaps in drawing his dagger. Did
we determine that Mor had a dagger? I
can't remember if we did or not, but
what we should have because I it's a
foregone conclusion that Simon would
have given Morde uh something to fight
with. And the only thing he has that he
can spare is Vilborg's dagger. The
dagger that Vilborg gave him uh to
remember him by. Morde leaps in with his
dagger. Morde has a fighting of a
fighting. He's a fighting of D6. Uh he's
not a wild card. So two he will not hit
it. And now it's this thing's turn. I
think it's going to turn and blast the
two newcomers with its sleep gas on a
one to two. It does that. And it does
from these like sacks underneath its
jaw. Venom like from from two different
sacks, two different colors of venom
kind of spray together and kind of
ignite into this gaseous substance that
fills the room entirely.
So with sleep gas, uh, basically how
this is going to work, how this is going
to work. I'm not sure what that voice is
supposed to be there. The real the sleep
cloud attack of these creatures, these
centipede looking things, uh, is a
pretty good weapon. It's a d8. If they
get a raise, then the save against it is
at minus, excuse me, minus two seven.
So, it's a success. So, that everybody
except for Garrick has to make a a vigor
save. Let's do mored first. He's going
to get four or more. He does. So, he
does not knock himself out. That is
great. And the vigor of our good friend
Simon. Simon as he's choking away. Oh,
there we go. The wildlife. Oh, look at
that. Double sixes. Boom. 612. He
succeeds with her. He's perfectly fine.
So, the gas fills the room. Everyone
kind of chokes a bit, but uh nothing
done. Next round. Here we are. Next
round. Pow. That's us. The good guys or
the bad guys again on four. So, I'm
going to let Simon go first. This time
he is going to once again he's going to
fire. This is even more dangerous now
because whereas he's firing into a
combat with his friend Mor. Well, his
friend. Is he really a friend? I guess
we'll find out. I'm not entirely certain
if he is a friend. It's hard to tell.
Anyway, so he fires it more.
What am I saying? He fires at the
centipede. Ah, he's rolling D8 and D6
and he wants four more. He does it, but
not with anything special. It's 2d6
damage versus the thing's toughness of
seven. So, he rolls six. Nothing done.
Glances off the carropus arm. That
brings us to Garrick. Garrick with his
massive uh sword.
Uh Garrick with his massive sword.
Swing. Ba. Pow. He's going to do 2d8
damage against a toughness of seven. And
he is going to do seven on seven, which
will shake this thing like that, leaving
Morde the chance to leap in and attack
the thing.
And he completely misses with the the
knife. just not cannot uh get past the
armor of this hideous centipede type
creature. Here's a question. Now,
there's been a couple rounds. One of
them is dead. Does another one come up
behind them from the uh the hole? I
mean, these we we have determined
there's six of them. So, there's going
to be at least one in each of these
buildings. So, that leaves one
unaccounted for. Let's call it somewhat
likely that that actually happens.
Somewhat likely. 88. Uh, no, it does
not. Okay. So, the other one is
definitely not around. That's good for
our heroes. Our heroes, they might be
meat sacks. It might be dead bodies by
the end of this. It's It's go. So, it's
got to get out of shaken. So, it's going
to do a spirit roll, which is a d6. And
it's got to get out of shaken. It does
not get out of shaken. That's good
because the new round is coming up.
Boom. Pow. Our guys are on seven. It's
on five. This is really good. So, Simon
once again fires his bow. Come on,
Simon. Hit something for once. Switch it
pal. Hit something for once. Yeah, there
we go. Six of two is eight. That is a
hit with a raise, which means he's going
to do 3d6 damage. That arrow cracks into
the carropus of this thing. Going to do
5 8 9 against toughness. Uh, it's
already shaken, so it takes a wounded
because it's an extra. Boom. He slays it
just like that. So, this thing, this
thing be dead. This bug be dead now.
Here's the interesting thing. Garrick
looks up. He sees Morde. He sees the
ranger. It's confusing. It's late at
night. I think there's a very good
chance he knows exactly who these people
are. I'm going to call it near Sure
thing, but it is dark. It's dark in the
room. We'll make it very likely. Does he
know who these two are? Does he
recognize them? The answer is 32. Yes,
he does. So, he knows he recognizes
them. He stops. He puts his sword up. He
says, "Wait a minute. I know you. You,
orc, you were the one that escaped our
clutches only a few days ago. And you,
you woodsman,
you tried to rescue the half orc that we
were legally going to execute." Simon is
furious by this. You murdered an
innocent man. Whatever you accuse him
of, he did not do it. There's no time
for this right now. These creatures have
attacked this village and I know that
there are other creatures about in the
other buildings. Now step aside. I'm
going to go stop them and then I'll deal
with you. Mor says, "Very well, human.
We will help you." But as
Garrick pushes past him, does Morde stab
him in the back? Fake chart.
He's He's a pretty hateful dude. He is a
pretty hateful dude. And here he is here
to get vengeance after all. I'm going to
say it's likely that Morde attacks him
in the back. Yes, he does. Does Simon
see it in time? Notice. Oh, Simon, your
notice sucks. D4. Does he notice this in
time? Oh, look at that. Look at that. A
six and four. He's definitely going to
see it like a god. He sees it with
seven. It's not It's actually not a
raise. It's not a raise. He just does
see it before. He Oh,
so here's the thing. He moves past him.
Garrick moves past Morud. Morde makes
eye contact with uh Simon and then puts
the knife up to stab Garrick in the
back. Does Simon
stop him? He is here for vengeance and
this guy killed his friend in cold
blood. Does he take this moment
to ambush this guy and kill him?
Ooh, you know, I don't know.
I don't know what he would do. Um, so
here's what we're going to do. I'm going
to leave it up at the faith chart. Does
Simon indulge his his vengeance on
Garrick, the guy who murdered his
friend? Right now, when he has the
opportunity,
does he let him go by and then attack
with Morde?
I think it's unlikely. Simon's not that
kind of guy. It was likely for Morde. I
don't think it's likely for Simon.
83. No, he does not. So, Garrick moves
past him. Morde moves up to try and like
stab him in the back. And Simon says,
"No, Morde. No." Garrick spins around
and sees Morde with his his knife up
like this. I mean, come on. If you saw
that happening, wouldn't you immediately
attack the guy that just burst into your
house? It's a sure thing. Does he attack
Mort and is the fight back on? 81. Yes,
he does. We go back into combat now.
Okie dokie. We still haven't rolled any
doubles, which is interesting because
when you roll doubles uh of your Chaos
Factor digit or under, you get an
automatic random event, but that hasn't
happened yet. I'm kind of waiting for
that to happen cuz that could that's
when things really get crazy when all
kinds of wrenches get thrown in the
works. But hasn't happened yet. So,
we'll see what goes on soon. All right.
So, uh now it's a battle. Simon. Oh,
Simon's quick. So, he's on 10.
and Garrick. Oh no, Garrick is first.
Well, oh, this could be the end of Mor.
Garrick, he spins around. Now, Garrick
is not in his armor. That's the crucial
thing. Garrick is not in his armor. He
wouldn't have had a chance. He He
basically got a chance to grab his
sword. He attacks first. So, he spins
and stabs at Morde. He's got to get a
five or more. Oh, yeah. No, no problem.
He hits uh with a raise, as a matter of
fact. Pow. 2d8 plus D6 is the damage
he's going to do.
Uh 11. Oh no, Mort is an extra, which
means that he goes down. Is he dead? We
don't know, but he definitely goes down.
Oh, we're not sure what his status is
yet. Right now, it is up to Simon. He
steps back, sort of leaps up on this
table, leaps backwards, and fires as he
does. Oh, now here's the thing. Does he
try and talk sense to this guy? Oh, you
know what? This this dude has just
killed two of his friends. He's killed
Vilvorg and now he's killed Mort. No,
Morde was asking for it. Let's face it,
Mort was asking for it. But Oh, no. I
Simon came here to get revenge on this
guy. So, no. No. He shoots him. Shoot
him. Come on, buddy. Shoot him. Yay.
Exploding six. Seven. So, he hits normal
hit. 2d6 damage and Oh, nothing at all.
The arrow basically just ricochets off
of his rippling muscles.
Terrible. We go to new rounds. Simon
can't win this fight. Garrick is way too
good. Simon might have to run again.
Initiative time. Joker for Simon. Yes.
And two.
Two for Garrick. Okay. Joker is great
because in Savage World, Joker means
that you act pretty much whenever you
want. you get plus two to everything you
do which is very very very necessary
right at this moment. So Simon is going
to again leap off the table
onto the onto the chair just because
it's cool firing as he goes. I really
wish that I would have taken some combat
edges for Simon right now. Combat edges
would have been good cuz combat edges
now could could really put that sucker
Garrick down. But he didn't take it. He
fires with a plus two. Plus two shooting
is an eight. That's a hit with a raise.
I will take it. Hit with a raise is
basically three to six damage against
this guy's toughness of six. Come on.
Exploders. Exploders. Uh we have nine
against six. We'll shake him. Will shake
him. My question now is as the GM,
would I have Garrick spend a Benny? He
does have two bennies. He is a wild
card. If he spends a benny, he can do it
anytime he wants. He can get rid of that
shaking. One to three. He does. He does
not. He does not. He's not going to
spend that benny.
Okay. Cuz you spend the Benny and just
shake is gone. Shake is gone. Like it
never happened. So he does shake. He
does shake Garrick, which is great. Oh,
we did plus two damage. Uh, right. I
forgot about that. Uh, so actually
that's shaken and a wound.
In that case, he is going to spend a
Benny to try and soak cuz he doesn't
want to be wounded. Forgot about the
plus two damage from the Joker. So, but
that that does push him over the edge
into uh a wound. He's going to roll a
vigor. Spend a Benny and roll a vigor
check to soak the wound. He does it
once. So, he does not take the wound,
but he is still shaken. Is his turn now.
Garrick has been shaken, but he has
combat reflexes, which allows him plus
two in a spirit roll. Then, he's a wild
card. So, he's get plus two to this. I'm
sure he's going to Oh, seven. It's not
with a raise. So, it takes his whole
round to get up, which is fine. We go
back now to initiative. Oh. Uh, but I've
dealt the Joker, so I have to reshuffle
the deck. That's how it works here with
Savage World.
How's my ankles? I wonder. It's really
hard for me to see. I don't have a crew,
you know. It's just me, myself, and die.
Yeah. Right there. Little shuffle.
Little shuffle. New round. an
initiative. Simon gets an ace and
Garrick gets an ace in descending order.
Hearts go before clubs. Woo! Simon, he
he's shaking this guy, but he can't
really hurt him. He's going to try
again. He's going to try and shoot one
more time. This time he leaps back and
over the hole.
Six
plus five is 11. That is a hit with a
raise. I will take that faux show. 2d6
damage. Give me some exploders. 14
19 damage against his toughness of six.
Wow. So, six shakes him. 10 14 18. Three
wounds. Great. Sergeant Garrick takes an
air right in his left breast.
Three wounds. He has to spend his last
benny to try and soak this. Ooh,
exploding eight and four is 12.
That unbelievable hit hits Garrick, but
he just shrugs it off. Oh, and now goes
after Simon. Ah. 1 2 3 4 5 6. He's going
to leap over here. It's He's going to
He's going to have to leap and attack
with the sword. And oh my god. With a 10
and a
definitely hits with a raise with his
long sword. This is bad for Simon. Oh,
67. His toughness of six, so he'll be
shaken from that. Garrick comes in.
Leaps over the hole and slashes at
Simon. Cuts him across the neck. Doesn't
cut deep, but cuts painful. New roundup.
What have we got here? We've got for
Simon eight.
Oh, this is bad again. Garrick, who is
like just yelling bloody murder right
now. You try to attack my men. You tried
to release criminals from their just
deserts and now you invade my home in
the midst of an attack. And he hits him.
Hits him. This is bad. I think maybe
Simon is unable to uh to fight this dude
cuz he's so tough. However, he's not
that tough. He will miss thankfully.
Simon's round now. He's going to do a
spirit roll to see if he can get up. Get
up, Simon. You've got to give up. Not
give up. Not give up. Get up. You know
what? I'm just going to I'm just going
to spend the Benny and come out of
Shaken immediately cuz I want I want to
act this round. Now he's in combat. So
he is going to drop the bow, pull his
sword, and attack
for against his parry of ungodliness. Uh
it's not going to work. So we go into
new round. But before we do, I think
there's a very good chance that this
whole thing gets interrupted by another
creature. Wouldn't that be interesting?
because they're still around and I don't
know what's going on with the rest of
the uh the centipede uh things in town.
So, here's the thing. We're going to
call it. It's been a while now. Let's
call it likely that's that one of these
creatures pops out of the hole. 01.
Oh, yes. Not one, but two bursting from
the hole.
Okay, this is a problem. Now, they get
their own action card. So, Simon is
going to be well, you know, my name is
Simon and my initiative card is Jack.
Um,
Garrick
seven and the creatures are on nine.
Okay, so Simon goes first. Well,
he hacks at Garrick.
Bang with his mighty D6.
He really he really sucks. He's really
not a good fighter. Five, he will not
hit. Bang. and he he cannot get past
Garrick's parry just too much. Uh and
now it's the creatures. They both are
going after Garrick. Well, let's say one
to two one of them goes out. Okay, so
they both go after Garrick
and they are going to one of them is
going to just fill the room with sleep
gas. So the first one attacks with sleep
clouds with a six. So it's not a raise,
it's just a uh a straight up vigor roll
uh for both these guys. So first of all,
Garrick uh no problem. Uh, see with a
raise. He's fine. And uh, wouldn't that
be funny if Simon went down to this?
Yes, no problem as well. Uh, also with a
race. So he's fine with that. The other
one though comes in with its pincers to
attack Garrick. Now Garrick is now
flanked even though the enemies are on
different sides. Uh, so he has to split
his uh, attention against the two
enemies. So that means the enemies are
going to have a plus one to attack.
Fighting D6 and he gets plus one. Oh,
there's an explode. Uh, so plus one is
nine. His parry is eight. Yeah, but he
does hit him. Imagine that. And the
pinsers are doing a d6 and a d8 against
his toughness of six. The damage
nine. Boom. That's going to shake
Garrick. Great. Thanks, buddy.
All right. And now it's Garrick. He's
going to spend his spirit roll with his
plus two to get up. This guy's way too
tough. Uh, six. He succeeds but not with
a raise. So he spends his whole round
getting up from that. We go to a new
round. Simon another jack. Garrick on a
two and the creatures on a jack of
clubs. But hearts go before clubs. So
thankfully he is no longer shaken but he
is going to attack with his sword but at
plus one because of the end. Oh come on.
You know what? I'm spending a Benny to
reroll the whole thing cuz I'm quite
sick of this let me tell you. Come on.
Stab Garrick, won't you? Six. That's a
little better. Plus nine is a regular
hit. D6 and D8 damage against uh
toughness of um six. Okay. Come on. Six
against six will shake him.
Good. Garrick's on two. Uh the creatures
again. I think there's a good chance one
of them goes after Simon. One to three.
It does. It does not. The creatures
pounce on the fallen. Well, he's not the
fallen. When you're shaking a savage
world, that could mean a lot of things.
Basically, Garrick is kind of like
stumbling against a wall, suffering the
the death of a thousand cuts, as they
used to say. So, lots of blood
everywhere. Uh, the two things come in
on him. And attack. Both of them
attacking with D6s. Uh, now each of them
gets a plus two because they're all
attacking the same guy. Ooh, exploding.
Uh, 9 10 11 8. One of them gets a
regular hit. It's going to do a d6 and a
d8 damage. Get a six. And it's going to
do There we go. There we go. That's
going to be 12 plus seven 19 versus six.
This is good because Garrick is out of
bies. 19 against six. So six shakes him.
10 wounds him. 14. 18. He's already
shaken. Oh, he's already shaken. He's
already shaken. So that means it turns
into woo. He is incapacitated by that.
Oh, that's great. So, these things swarm
on Garrick and begin to feed on him as
their pincers are chalk. I think it's
time uh well, Garrick is is
incapacitated and um I don't think he's
going to make it. However,
Simon is stuck in this area with these
creatures. He's got to get the hell out
of dodge. Simon, he's on seven. The
creatures are on nine. Well, do they
continue to feed or do they attack the
guy standing? They are pretty uh pretty
savage and Perilous Wilds said that they
were attacking. So, um I'm going to say
it's likely they go after Simon. Uh
Chaos rank five uh 43. Yes, one of them,
at least one of them does. If it was a
very if it was an extraordinary yes, I
would have had both of them abandon
their meal. But one of them here
immediately launches at Simon and
attacks him with a d6 fighting and rolls
a two. So, he will miss Simon. So, he's
going to move his six and go on the
defensive. So he defends himself as he
leaps backwards making a fighting
tactical with uh withdrawal back through
the window. The creature will attack
against him. Oh no. Six. Uh nine. He's
going to hit him as he goes, but not
with a raise. Come on, roll low. Seven.
He's going to shake Simon.
And you know my name is Simon and the
card I draw is six versus 10. That's no
good. This thing attacks him again. Uh,
this thing's of course going to come
after Simon. It's now cuz this thing is
quite busy busily feeding on Garrick as
he's trying desperately to get the wall.
He will miss this time. Simon does a
spirit roll in order to break free of
the shaken. Simon will once again do a
fighting withdrawal which will provoke
an attack of opportunity as he leaps
back through the open window and the
thing will miss. He leaps back to the
window, which is two. And then he's
going to go 3 4 5 6. Let's ask the fate
chart. Does it pursue Simon or does it
take the meal right there?
14. Yes, it does pursue Simon. There's
no escape for this poor guy. This thing,
it leaps down the hole and it's going to
burst forth somewhere out here. I'm just
going to say like uh um 2D to 10 yards
away cuz it moves super fast
underground. Four yards away. So it
basically bursts up there. Bang.
So Simon sees this on six. He's going to
run. He's trying to get to Morde. Six.
Great. So he can move 12. 1 2 3 4 5 6.
Leaps defense. 7 8 9 10 11 12 on the
other side. Basically, uh, the thing
doesn't see him, but it is going to
pursue. Again, the initiative is Simon
on king. It's on king. Diamonds before
clubs. So he runs up to Morde and let's
see what happened to Morde. Oh my god.
Okay buddy. This is for all the marbles.
Seven. So it's a success. He's not dead.
He's incapacitated.
Now we need to know if he can get out of
here. Simon runs up. Mort. Mort on your
feet. On your feet. M's like you
suffered a terrible terrible wound. So
he makes Mort now makes a second vigor
roll. If he makes it, he's the walking
wounded and he can get out of here. He
doesn't make it. Those who don't make
the roll can be moved, but risk
aggravating their injuries. They must
make another bigger roll for each and
every hour of movement. Should they
fail, they begin to die. So, okay. Mor's
in bad shape. It's the old wound, Sia.
[Music]
But Mort stumbles to his feet. I can't
go on. Uh Simon says, "We've got to get
out of here now." He grabs Morde and
they flee into the night, which brings
us to the end of the scene. Uh,
centipede creatures attack and kill
Garrick.
Morde is walking wounded. Well, um,
that's the end of that scene. Scene
five. Oh boy, it's such chaos, man. It
never goes nicely. Let's update our list
here. Chaos factor definitely goes up to
six. That was crazy and totally
unexpected. That was really, really not
at all what anybody expected. Let's uh
deal with our threads. Take vengeance on
the Carpsburg militia. Yeah, I think
that thread is definitely closed cuz
Carrick has been eaten alive and
characters. There were no new
characters. Yeah, that was a brutal
brutal situation. And it leaves Mort and
Simon stumbling through the the
wilderness with Mor taking a what could
be a a mortal wound. Mortal.
It's really not a laughing matter. Mort
is is about to die and and in another
hour he's going to have to make a vicor
check and if he fails, he's dead. So,
Simon is going to desperately be trying
to get Morde back to a safe place where
he can tend to his wounds.
Will he be able to do that in time? What
will happen on the way as something
always seems to happen on the way for
Simon? He can't seem to get anything
done.
I have no idea and neither do you. But
if you tune in next week and remember to
hit like and subscribe,
then you will find out just like I will.
And at the same time, thanks for
watching. We will see you next time.
Hello once again and welcome back to Me,
Myself, and I. I am your intrepid host,
Trevor Deval. And if you like the show
today, don't forget to hit subscribe and
like and make a comment or uh share it
on your various social medias. That
would be good. Let's just do a tiny
little recap of the events of last time.
Simon and Mor crept up on the village of
Carpsburg by night to try and locate
Sergeant Garrick and exact their
vengeance upon him. But things didn't
quite turn out the way that they thought
it would. And it turns out that the
entire town was under attack by a group
of hideous centipede creatures that had
infiltrated all the various buildings.
Simon and Mor came across Garrick's home
and he was currently under attack. They
worked together to fight off these
creatures and slew them. But then there
was a confrontation as Morde tried to
stab Sergeant Garrick in the back. There
was a big fight and Sergeant Garrick
wound up getting eaten by two more
centipede creatures that appeared out of
nowhere. That must head. So Simon fled
with Mort out into the wilderness. Mort
is currently suffering from a a terrible
wound that he is dying from. And in
another hour, he's going to have to make
a another vigor check. And if he fails
that, he is going to die. So currently
Simon's thread is or his most immediate
thread is to get Morde to the cabin
safely. So let us go back now to our
actual scene setup. Simon and Morde are
stumbling through the woods. Simon is
it's the middle of the night. Simon is
trying to get Morde back to the cabin.
Our chaos factor, as we know right now,
is at six because things went quite
haywire last time. So, what I'm going to
do is I'm going to roll a d10 against
the chaos factor of six to see if the
scene is altered or uh uh changed at
all. And and in fact, it is. So, we have
an interrupt scene. First of all, the
event focus is going to be 84,
which is NPC negative. That's great.
That's a good start.
1 to two it's Manfred. 3 to four it's
AR. and five to six. It's mored and it's
going to be six. Of course. Of course.
Of course, it's going to be mored. What
is the action and subject? The action of
this is 60, which is abuse. You know, we
had that last time. Abuse. Interesting.
Abuse. What? If it's information again,
we're probably going to be attacked by a
giant centipede. Don't want that. 46.
This time is food. Abuse food. Oh, I
know. Uh, last time Simon had gone
hunting and he had, I don't know,
presumably brought down a deer or
something. So, they had some rations.
So, as Simon and Morde is stumbling
through the woods and it's like after
midnight, remember I said last time it's
a it was a new moon, no stars, so it's
quite dark. Uh Mor could see in the
dark, but Mort is too busy coming in and
out of consciousness right now. And
they're moving along, moving along. And
suddenly, Mort clutches his stomach and
drops to his knees. Uh Simon goes up to
him. Mort, what is what is it? Is it the
wounded? And he begins to to to check
the wound, but it the bandages that he's
put on there seems to be intact. He's he
hasn't ripped open the wound or anything
like this. But Mort says I cannot. And
he begins to clutch his belly.
It was bad meat. Bad meat. And he
doubles over in pain. He can't even move
now. And Simon thinks, "Uh-oh, did I not
cook that venison properly?"
Wow. Uh, that that's going to that's
going to screw things up. He says to
him, "Mortud, I know you are in pain for
whatever reason, but there is no time.
We We have to get up. We have to get up.
I cannot I cannot move, Simon.
Just I think as an orc, he would say
something like, "Just kill me. End this
now. No, I will not kill you. Come on
your feet. We must keep going." Is he
unable to continue on a 54? Yes, he is
unable. So, he's just he's lying there
clutching his stomach, and I think he
begins to like vomit.
gross. Ah, what's Simon going to do? He
knows that unless he gets Mor to a place
of safety to be able to properly treat
his wounds that uh he's going to die.
And I think as as Mor begins to throw up
as well, his his wound does open up and
blood slowly begins to seep to the
bandage again. Simon's going to have to
try and and find something around like a
like a herb or something he can quickly
grab. Maybe something that's going to
settle the stomach. He's got D6
survival, so I'm going to make a
survival check. if he successfully finds
something to settle to settle Mort's
stomach enough to get him back on his
feet. Okay, so D6 survival check. Oh
yeah, there we go. Beautiful exploding
six. Success with the rays. So he says,
"Mort, just stay there. Just just stay
here. Don't move." And he runs off
through the night and he's he's looking
and he and he sees a particular herb
that he knows uh can be can be chewed up
and it it basically acts as a like like
a sedative almost in a way. So he snips
it. Here's a question. Does anything
happen in those few minutes that Simon
is out looking for this herb? Does he
come across anything in the darkness?
Let's call it 50/50 because I'm not
entirely sure. The answer is 90. He does
not. That's actually good in this case.
So, he finds the herb. He clips it off.
He comes back to to to Mort who's lying
there clutching his gut, you know, like
saliva still dribbling off of his lower
jaw of the of his lower tusks, you know.
He says, "Eat this. Eat this." and he he
crumbles it up and he begins to chew it
up and Mort says to him, "That is
better." And then he says something that
I think would be an appropriate question
at this time. He says,
"Simon, human,
why are you helping me? I am an orc.
Your people and mine are enemies. Why do
you not leave me to die?" Mored. I among
my own people am an outcast for crimes
that I was accused of, crimes of which I
am not guilty. When I was cast out of my
own society,
the only friend I had in the world was
the halfwalk whose dagger you now hold.
If it was not for him,
it is very possible I would have died
alone in the woods. And though your
people have been treacherous to mine
over the years, I do not judge you for
this. You have already proven yourself a
loyal ally. And the very least I can do
is try and get you to safety.
I do not admire or like your people,
Simon of Argan.
But you,
you have proven yourself a friend to my
people this day.
and if I survive,
I will make it known to my tribe that
you are not to be touched.
He gets him on his feet and they begin
to make their way back towards the
cabin. Is he going to be able to get
Morde to that cabin before Morde has to
make his vigor to see if it survives? Is
the cabin within a half an hour's walk?
No, it is not. He can't really hustle
Morde along any faster because Morde is
stumbling as it is. Blood seeping from
the wound. As he's moving along, Morde
has got to do his vigor roll. You've got
to You've got to do your vigor roll,
Mort. Morde. His vigor is D8. Does he
succeed? He does with a raise. Even 11
almost two raises. So, he is able to get
to the cabin alive.
Great. Stumbling in. They stumble into
the cabin. Oh,
over this. This is a different cabin
that I was using before for those of you
who are paying attention. Bursts into
the bedroom more, you know, uh uh slumps
down on the bed, which is good because
it means that he's probably going to
survive this. Finally, some good news
for Simon. This reminds me of that old
movie Enemy Mine for some reason for
those of you who aren't too young to
remember that old movie from the 80s.
Anyway, so Simon is now exhausted and I
think that he is just going to get some
sleep. Does anything happen to disturb
them in the night? I'm going to say it's
probably very unlikely that they're
disturbed. They're kind of in the middle
of nowhere. They're not really being
chased or anything right now, so very
unlikely that anything disturbs them. 95
extreme. No. So, not only does anything
disturb them in the night, nothing
disturbs them for the whole rest of the
day, which means that Morde recovers
pretty much fully from this wound. The
next morning, as they're sitting there
sort of eating their meager rations,
their meager breakfast. You know, maybe
Simon has gone out to to pick some, you
know, berries and find some roots or
tubers or anything like that. Kind of
boiled them up in this little tiny
hunter cabin uh of of very limited
means. So, here's a question. I think
that Mor I think that he's going to try
and get back to his people. Yeah. Let's
let's call that uh let's call that very
likely. 20. Yes. So he says to Simon,
"The time has come for me to return to
my tribe.
You cannot come with me. My people would
kill you on sight. Even if I did try to
explain, it will take some time for me
to see our chief and tell him that you
are not to be killed. This dagger you
gave me, this is not mine to wield. Take
it back and remember your half orc
friend. And until we meet again, Syon of
Argan, I bid you the best of luck in
these wild lands.
I am pleased that I was able to make a
friend of you, Morde. It is rare that
humans and orcs can find such friendship
in these dark times. Perhaps we will
meet again. And with that, Morde
finishes his breakfast, stands up
and walks out into the woods, and walks
out of Simon's life forever. Well, we
don't know if it's forever. He's still
around. still on the NPC chart, but that
is a uh a lovely little way to end the
scene. Okay, so we update the list. The
threads, we've got more to the cabin, so
we can cross that off as a thread. And
the chaos factor, well, that he was
largely in control. So it goes back down
to five. This leaves Simon without an
immediate thing to do, except of course
for still continuing to try and find out
the fate of his parents, cuz if you
recall, that was sort of the big thing.
So how does the new scene start? I have
no idea. So what we're going to do is
scene seven, we are going to roll a
random event to start off the scene. So
the event focus of scene 7 event focus
is 60, which is Oh boy. PC negative,
that's great. That's great. It's just
what we want, dear. 12 increase
a burden. Ooh, he has left the cabin
behind and he is walking through the
woods. What's the What's the temperature
out? What's the day like? I'm just going
to roll at E20. And uh the higher I get
uh the better the weather is. It is a
19. It is a beautiful summer's day. It's
warm. It's pleasant. Not too hot, not
too cold. And that is the irony as he is
walking along and he's scaling sort of
this large rock
when he he looks up at this rock and
it's as I said it's just a he's climbing
this rock he looks out over the mountain
valley that he can see spread out before
him now the high snow-covered peaks on
the far side of the valley thrust up
like white fingers you know sort of
caressing the blue sky and he's so
engaged he's so sort of taken back and
you know it's it's a breathtaking sight
he's so taken back for just a second
that he steps forward and loses his
footing and falls down and twists his
ankle. There's a sickening wrenching
sound.
Is it broken? I hope not.
Let's find out. Does he break his ankle?
Cuz that would really suck. I think
that's going to be very unlikely. He's a
pretty experienced guy in in the
wilderness. We are back down to Chaos
Factor 5 now. Very unlikely. Did he
break the ankle or is it just a
temporary sprain? 0.
Well, 07 is a yes. Uh, it's not an
extreme yes.
Okay. So, the sickening sound he hears
is in fact a snap. Oh, boy. Ah. He cries
out in pain. Cries out in pain,
clutching his right ankle. This is
really bad. He needs to find a place to
hold up. Does he going to go back to the
cabin? He knows it's safe. He's only
like 6 hours out. I think he's got to go
back. I think he's got to try and go
back. So, he gets himself up, but he
he's going to try and fashion a crutch
of some sort. He kind of pulls himself
up the rock face looking for some some
deadfall. He does have survival, so I
think that's an appropriate use of that
skill. If he fashions this crutch, it's
going to make things much more easy for
him to get back to that cabin. If he
doesn't, it's going to be much harder.
Okay. Does he fashion a crutch? He does.
Yes, he does. So, he's able to fashion a
crutch. It's not a raise, so just it's
an okay crutch. Not the best crutch in
the world, but it is a crutch
nonetheless that will do the job. And he
will be able to get back. It's a
beautiful day. He knows the way. He's
not going to get lost or anything. But
here's the thing. Does anything happen
to him on the way back? If he had not
been able to make the crush, I'd make
this far more likely that he does
encounter something cuz it's probably
going to be bad. But because he made the
crutch, I'm just going to make it a
50/50 roll. Chaos factor 5. 50/50. Does
he encounter anything on the way back?
So the answer is no. He does not
encounter anything. So, he makes it back
to the cabin after 6 hours, which puts
us back at the end of the day. Now, uh
uh here's a thing. Has anybody come to
the cabin? Is the cabin occupied? I'm
going to say it's probably unlikely. KS
factor 5 unlikely. 96. Definitely not.
So, this cabin is like abandoned.
Whoever owned it is clearly dead or, you
know, it's just long, long, long gone.
So, there's no chance that the owner of
the cabin's going to come back and find
him here. He is perfectly safe. So, he
comes back to this cabin. H. How's he
doing for food? I think I've been
keeping track of his provisions, haven't
I? So, he's down to 3 days rations. He's
okay for now. He's got lots of water.
Everything's fine. But, oh boy, he's
he's broken
his foot. I think that it's going to
take at least several days for this
thing to set. Uh, normally in real life,
obviously if you had a broken ankle,
you'd be hobbled for well, at least a
month, but that's kind of boring. So,
we're just going to assume that it
wasn't like completely broken, but it's
a really, really bad sprain. He's
temporarily lame, which in game terms
means his basic pace is reduced by two
and he rolls on only a d4 for running
rolls. So, he's super slow. That that
makes perfect sense. I'm going to say
it's going to be 2d12 days. 2d12 days
he's going to be holed up. Of course, 10
days. 10 days he's going to be hold up.
fascinating because he's only got three
days of food left.
10 days could pass and everything would
be fine. We know that the owner isn't
coming back to the cabin, but we don't
know if something else is going to come
along the cabin. But I think the most
pressing concern right now is food cuz
after 3 days he's going to run out. He
is going to have to go hunting and
that's going to be difficult to do.
Lame. Lame. You're such a lame. Such a
lame lag, Simon. So, uh, here's what
happens. 3 days go by and he's not
inter, you know, he's he's not uh
interfered with in this cabin. There's
nobody around. There's nobody coming
back to this cabin. But 3 days later,
the last of his rations runs out. So,
he's going to have to make a survival
role once per day. Successful roll finds
sustenance for one person. A raise Oh, a
a raise on the roll finds food and water
for five adults. So, here's the thing.
Because he is lame, and I have to be
fair about this. It's going to be much
harder for him to do this. So, he is
going to roll a minus two survival cuz
you know he's he's hobbling around on
this crutch and he's he can't he can't
hunt. He can't shoot a bow cuz he can't
stand up. I mean, good luck trying to
shoot a bow with one arm, buddy. One
arm, buddy. Good luck. So, he's going to
make survival rolls. He doesn't have to
worry about the first three days. He's
fine. And then on the fourth day, he
makes a survival roll. And of course, he
fails. Great. Humans need approximately
one pound of food every 24 hours. Is
that all? My god. If sufficient
sustenance isn't available, a character
begins to suffer from severe hunger.
Starting the first day after the meal
was missed. So this first day, he's out
there in the wilderness. He's looking.
He's not straying too far from the
cabin. He's he's trying to gather food.
He gets like a few little sort of bitter
berries off of various bushes and stuff,
but it's not enough to uh satisfy his
hunger. So he uh he hobbles back to the
the cabin that night, collapsing into
the bed. He starts to get quite hungry
now as the summer sun sets in the west
and the uh the chill evening night here
in the mountains comes pressing in. So
it's 10 days until he's recovered from
this thing. It's been three and that was
four days without food is one. So the
next day he is going to get a chance to
see if he can go out. He's super hungry.
He wakes up so hungry, but he hobbles
back out into the woods. He's looking
for food. He's going to do another
survival roll here. Um, but he's still
at minus two because of that because of
that leg. Six exploding. Two is a total
of six. That's a success. So, he's able
to find food for one day. Okay. Oh, just
enough to to keep him to keep him
satiated and he he crawls back in the
It's been 5 days now in the cabin. I
think it's appropriate to see if
anything wanders across him. You know,
we have to we have to see. We're on
chaos rank five. I'm going to say it's
unlikely that something comes across
him, but it is always possible with a
98. No extreme no. There is nothing
around here that's going to come across
him. So, no worries about any kind of
random encounters. No worries about
being attacked. Nothing like that. There
is nobody around here at all for the
duration of these 10 days. Thank
goodness. Finally, some good news. The
sixth day, he goes out again, hobbling
along. Now, by the sixth day, he's
starting to feel a little better. You
know, it's been half the amount of time
that he needs to heal. So, I'm going to
say that his penalty now is reduced to
one. He's got a little more mobility.
So, this is all about survival. Now, we
know he's not going to be attacked.
We've already done. We've got the
extreme no. So, he doesn't have to worry
about that. He doesn't know that, but we
do. We know that. We know that. You and
I. But, he is going to see if he can
find some food for 5 days. This would be
great. But he said minus one. 4 - 1 is
three. He does not. So, the sixth day
he's out in the wilderness again,
searching, searching. He stumbles back.
Uh, he's not dehydrated. Speaking of
dehydrated, let's see what the weather
is doing overall over the next 5 days.
The higher the better. Nine. It's not
great, but it's not terrible. So, it
does rain a little bit. It gets a little
chilly at night, but he's able to
collect deadfall from the woods and keep
a fire going and uh collect rain water
as well. So, he's not going to die of
dehydration, which is actually okay. On
the seventh day, if he doesn't find
food, he's going to start to accumulate
fatigue. So, he goes out hobbling again,
looking for food, looking for food. 5 -
1 is four. He succeeds for that day,
which is enough. The next day, eight
days he's going along. He's just getting
a little better. He's running out of
food big time. 4 - 1 is three. He fails
this time. He has scoured the whole area
for any kind of berries, and he's
finding it harder and harder to find
more food. So, on the ninth day, he's
going to have to start taking a fatigue
test. Yeah, I'm going to give him a
fatigue test on this ninth day cuz he's
had a couple days with no food there.
And I think that it just makes sense
he's gonna have to make an a fatigue
test now. Vigor with a d6
with the wild die. Oh boy. Oh boy.
Double ones. Double ones is like a bad
critical failure. He gains a fatigue
level. Fatigue in this game means that
everything he does is going to be at a
minus one. While he's at that level,
this is the ninth day now, but he's just
becoming like delirious with hunger and
he's hobbling along. you know, he has to
use the crutch less and less cuz his
foot is getting better. But he's like,
oh, he's starting to see things,
starting to see, you know, almost
hallucinate a little bit. He's he's
seeing things in the wood that aren't
there, but making it harder for him to
try and find anything. He's like digging
in the dirt trying to find truffles.
Let's see if he can find some food. He
does a minus one and a minus one from
his ailing foot. So, he's still at minus
two to his survival roll.
That's another failure. You know what?
I'm going to have to spend the first
benny of the game to see if I can reroll
this cuz I really need to here on the
ninth day. Does he find any food? Six.
Exploding six in six is 12. Uh 61 12 17
- 2 is 15. That is success with 81 12 uh
with two raises. He comes across an old
hunter stash. He's he's delirious. He's
delirious. He's he's stumbling through
the woods. He's starting to hallucinate.
As I said, he's becoming desparing. And
he sees just a lip of an old cave. and
he kind of cautiously stumbles into it.
You know, he he pulls his he pulls his
sword in his left hand, which he's not
very good with. And he he's stumbling
towards it cuz who knows what could be
in this cave. And he but what what's
inside is in fact this cache of old
hunter supplies, dried meat, this kind
of stuff. He sets two eating almost too
much, but he's wise enough to know not
to eat too much. He grabs the rest and
brings it back to the cabin and he will
be fine for the 10th day. And after the
next day,
he has healed his foot. And on the 11th
day, he is ready to set out once again.
We're going to end that scene there. So,
now we're going to determine uh what
happens next. He's trying to uh
ultimately find out the fate of his
parents, any clues as to to where they
might be. So, he leaves the cabin
behind. As always, we're going to create
a random event. The event focus is going
to be 90 which is NPC negative 74 divide
19 new ideas. This is AR. Okay, here's a
scene. This actually this scene doesn't
have anything to do with Simon at all.
And Arn Kalapunki comes across a lone
orc in the wilderness. An orc with a
wound, a freshly bandaged wound on his
side. This of course is Morde. Ar
Kalapunki has cornered mored and
interrogated him. And in that
interrogation, he learns of Simon's
kindness, of Simon's kindness to a
fellow outcast, another orc, a creature
that that is just a a monster to be
slain as far as AR is concerned. But
Simon showed compassion to this
creature. He healed him. He helped him.
He provided him shelter and food and
nursed him back to health. Mored. This
orc, this savage feral beast speaks very
highly of Simon under duress, under
interrogation, but he speaks very highly
of Simon. And Aron Calipunki now begins
to wonder. A seed of doubt is planted in
Arin Kalapunky's mind. Perhaps that
Simon is not the villain that Manfred of
Dovedane has made him out to be. Perhaps
Manfred of Dovedane is trying to smear
Simon's character for some nefarious
purpose. Well, that can't possibly be,
thinks Arn. Why would Mansfford have
cost to lie about this person
still? It shakes him and it begins to
challenge his resolve. Perhaps next time
he encounters Simon, he may have a
different outlook. H well, that's a
quick little scene. I think there's a
new thread of Arin wants to test Simon's
character. Moving on, let's go back and
and uh determine another random event to
see what happens with Simon here. The
event focus is going to be 80 ambiguous
event. This could be anything at all. 62
inspect
and the subject
09 evil. I think that he comes across
like an evil temple. Is it the rem the
ruins of an evil temple? 50/50. K is
rank six. 10 extreme. Yes. Is this a
ruined temple of necroantic power? Um
50/50 again. Could really go either way.
Uh 17. Yes, it is. Okay, cool.
Obviously, Simon is going to be stupid
enough to investigate
because why not? So, it's an overgrown
building, like thick stone building
that's completely overgrown with weeds
and vines and, you know, this big cracks
in it. Old old old. Well, there's a
number of ways we can handle this. The
Perilous Wild has these dungeon charts
for creating dungeons. So, we can let's
let's do that. Who built this thing?
Religious or cult? Well, that makes
sense. It is a temple. How did it come
to ruin? This is an interesting
question. Overrun by monsters.
Okay. I wonder if they were overrun by
monsters of their own making. The
dungeon themes. There's two themes we've
determined for this. Forbidden
knowledge. Well, that makes perfect
sense, as necromancy would most
definitely be forbidden knowledge. The
other theme in here is going to be rot
decay. Well, that makes sense, too. It
is a necromancer's temple. Big gray
walls
of a building built to the into the side
of a a rocky cliff face. They're
completely covered in vines. Some of the
trees have started to grow within into
the cracks of the rocks, further further
splitting some of the walls out. But he
can definitely see one particular
entrance. I I'm picturing like a main
stone door. Now, we know this place was
overrun by monsters. So, is the door
standing open?
64. Yes, the door is open. So, the big
stone doors are standing slightly a jar.
And there's a there's a a a smell of rot
and decay that that's coming out like a
wafting on the air in front of Simon as
he looks inside. He draws his bow,
strings his bow, and knocks an arrow.
What does he find? We roll a little d12.
It's a unique area and a danger. So, he
finds the main temple. Look, look, look.
I found a danger. Danger. uh unique and
a danger. A creature makes sense. The
whole place was overrun by creatures.
There is a danger in here. We know it's
a creature. But what I want to do is I
want to ask the fate chart. Was it the
undead themselves that overran the
temple? Yes, it was in fact the
necromancer's own creations that overran
the temple. It's a fairly large room, a
large stone room with a number of dark
archways leading off to various
passages. He can only see by the little
bit of afternoon light that's filtering
in. There's a large altar at the far end
of the room. Several pews, broken rotted
wood pews. Uh it looks like there was a
big fight here cuz it was overrun by
monsters. So I think that the pews, a
lot of them are smashed and stuff like
this. There's probably also the remains
of many dead acolytes and possibly
servants of the temple here. So there's
skeletons lying everywhere. Is the
danger in this room? We know it's a
creature. It seems obvious to me. Is the
danger skeletons? I' I'd say that's
likely. Boom. 85. That's exactly what it
is. So, he moves up. The door is a jar
and he can see
the remains of pews. There's uh the
bodies of dead acolytes sort of clad in
these dark black robes. At the far end,
there's also a altar with uh passageways
leading off uh various directions and he
can't really see in the gloom. As he
walks in, he steps in, his arrow drawn.
The skeletons
animated by some fell necroantic power.
They stand up and we go to initiative.
Simon, boom, is on seven. And the
skeletons are of course on the Joker.
Wow, we're off to a great start for
Simon already. So, the skeletons, the
skin is already rotted from these risen
dead. They recover from shaking very
easily.
They get up and they do everything with
plus two. This round I'm going to take a
I'm going to say it takes the majority
of their first turn their move action to
basically rise.
They're going to take a few steps
forward maybe here. But these ones,
this one gets up and comes at Simon and
attacks him with a fighting of D6. These
are just extras and he will not hit
Simon. So Simon's able to kind of Whoa.
Just step back out of the way as this
thing comes.
These two uh also begin to move forward
past the, you know, clambering over the
wreckage of the of the destroyed pews
and moving forward. And that's all
they'll do for now. Uh oh, hold on a
sec. I forgot. They're attacking on
Jokers. So, that actually means it's a
six. So, they do hit. This guy does hit
Simon. Bang. Which is just awesome. It's
going to do D6 and a D4 damage, but
these are both plus two because of the
Joker. Oh my god. Comes in here. Four.
his toughness, his six with his armor.
So, it basically the claws rake on
Simon's leather armor. He's freaking out
by this, but he sees this thing in front
of him. He's in combat with this. He
drops his bow, pulls his sword, and
attacks. Unfortunately, minus two
because drawing a weapon and attacking
is a multi-action penalty. He's rolling
his 2d6es and his wild die. He will miss
unfortunately as he basically is
fumbling for his sword and he's unable
to to strike true, which we go back to a
new round. What was the purpose of this
place? Who was the high priest? What
other horrors await Simon in the depths
of the temple? We will find out. Perhaps
momentarily. Or perhaps Simon will die
here. Who can say? That's the beauty of
a role playing game. This is not a
movie. This is not a TV show. So,
there's no script. Who can say? Simon
might not make it. That's the joy of
adventure. Here we go. Boom. Nine. And
they are on five. So, he goes first. So,
he's going to strike at the zombie. And
he will unfortunately miss the zombie.
The skeleton I should say. He will miss
cuz he sucks. Have I mentioned that he
sucks? His hand to hand sucks. This one
is going to attack him. This one they
move seven. That's going to put him
within striking range. That one is going
to be just shy of striking range. So
these two are going to attack. I'm going
to roll them both at the same time. They
both strike on d6s.
Uh one will No. Yes. One will hit. Bang.
He's going to do D6 and D4 damage
against Simon's toughness of six.
Five against six does nothing. So, uh,
the again the claws scrape along Simon's
armor. He's he managed to defend off
some of the attack with his sword. Uh,
and now it is again a new round. Simon
is going on nine again. And they're
going on 10. Of course they are. This is
bad. This one leaps over the wreckage.
All three of them rake at him with their
claws. Oh, they're all ganging up now.
So, they each get plus two. This is
great. get a gang up bonus. The bad
news. Oh, four will miss, five will hit,
three will miss. So, one hit. D6 and D4
is Oh, god.
Oh, god.
So, he gets hit for 16. His toughness is
six. He's definitely going to have to
spend one of his two remaining bennies
to soak for sure.
Okay. Well, he'll soak one of the
wounds. So, he is shaken and wounded,
which means that everything he does from
now on is at minus one. Oi,
he's in some trouble again. What a
surprise. Simon's in some trouble by
these three skeletons. Uh, he's got to
get out of here. He He cannot take
these. Not by himself. There's no way.
He needs to get help or just flee. So,
he's going to go into a fighting
withdrawal. They are all going to get a
free attack on him as he runs backwards
through the door. They will all miss,
thankfully. Here's a question. As he
leaps back through the entrance,
are they able to actually leave this
temple? I think it's very very likely
actually that they are unable to leave
this temple. They cannot pursue him. Uh,
can they leave? 25. Of course they can
because it's Simon and he's going to
die.
The skeletons that have overrun the
temple have decided they're going to
leave the temple behind as they go after
Simon. Uh, but that will be a new round.
If Simon doesn't get initiative on this,
they're going to come through that
doorway where he maybe thinks that he's
safe. He's on queen. They're on two,
which means he go first. He's going to
roll a d6 for running, which is three.
So, he's going to move at nine, which
will basically put him at the edge of
this table here as he turns tail and
runs. Their pace is seven. They are
faster than him. So, they are going to
catch up to him the edge of the woods.
Ah, and they will run. But that was
their whole action to get to him. But
that locks him back in combat. Now, is
there a chance? I'm going to ask the
fate chart this. Is there a chance,
however slight someone comes along to
help him? It is possible.
I'm going to ask the fake chart cuz I'm
desperate here. Is there someone, anyone
in the world that can come along at this
exact moment to help Simon? I'm going to
say no way. But we got to ask. Boom.
Extreme yes. He got an extreme yes.
Someone very helpful is going to come
along. Let's uh let's find out who it is
using Un. Uh that's what I love about
this system is that it just, you know,
you never know what's going to come. So,
the modifier is 98. A dependable. Well,
so far so good. Dependable 27 Chieftain.
Oh, I know what's going on here. Simon
trying desperately to run from these
skeletons and cannot seem to get. They
are just too fast. He knows there's no
way he can fight off these three when at
that moment there is a growl and a roar
from behind him as he turns and coming
crashing through the trees is a massive
orc chieftain. And beside him is Morde.
And Mored
see Simon and bellows to his chieftain.
That is the human I was telling you
about. He is in danger. We must help
him. The chieftain grunts
and comes charging into the fray. Simon
goes on. Gang, that's better. Uh the
orcs are on 10 and the skeletons are on
three. Now, Simon, feeling much more uh
invigorated by this, smashes at the
skeleton in front of him with his sword,
he slashes at him. Perry of the
skeletons is five, so he will hit. And
he does eight. That'll shake him. Now,
the orc chieftain is going to be a
little stronger. Yeah, he is a uh wild
card as well. Unbelievably tough. He's a
wild card. his D12 for fighting. And
he's going to hit with a raise. Boom.
Which means he does 2d10. 18 damage
against a toughness 7. Smashes that
skeleton to pieces. Mort over here
attacks with his D6. Explodes with a
six. This is against toughness 7. He
smashes. Oh, look at that. 10 16
uh 16 to 22
23 damage with his scimitar. just hacks
through the central spine of the
skeleton and just shatters it. It goes
careening down to the ground into dust.
There was one left. It is going to do a
vigor roll plus two five. So it will
succeed but it cannot act this round.
New round Simon Jack orcs joker
and oh ace. Well the jokers go first.
These two orcs Morde and the chieftain
step in. They're all going to get a gang
up bonus. the chieft and roar with his
battle axe and his wild eye plus two
because of the gang up bonus. He's going
to roll 57. So he will hit but it's not
with the rays. Pow! He does 2d10 damage
and he's going to do 11 damage. Bang! He
gets destroyed. I think this orc is
someone we want to keep around. Now the
skeleton is destroyed. Simon turns
Morde.
How is it that you are here? That is a
good question, Simon. I believe it's
because the player got really damn
lucky.
I told my chieftain here all about what
had happened to me, that you saved my
life, and he told me that if we ever
encountered you in the wilderness, we
would help. The chieftain's name, Boom.
Dench.
Dench.
We do not like your kind.
You're lucky I don't cave your skull in
right now just because
Morde says Chief Ginch, please remember
he saved me. My debt to you, Simon, is
done. A life for a life. Yes, that is
only fair. Although it would be very
handy to have the two of you enter
Yonder Temple with me, I have a feeling
it could be filled with vast riches.
Does the Orc chieftain have any desire
to help Simon further? So, I think that
they're on some sort of orcy mission.
Uh, and I don't think that they're
they're going to actually want to take
the time to help Simon any further. 59.
No. Thresh your luck, human. Very well.
I I suppose that would have been far too
lucky to have the two of you come in to
that place with me. And the chief backs
away. Morde looks at Simon. I did not
expect to see you again so soon, human.
Perhaps we will meet again in the
future. And Morde leaves with the chief,
leaving Simon alone in front of the
temple. Simon is not fool enough to go
into that temple again by himself. But
he is intrigued. Perhaps there's
something in this temple that has
something to do with the evil in the
forest that took his took his parents.
Now his interest is peak. He wants to go
into that temple and he wants to find
out more because it could be related. It
could be related to the evil that took
his parents. Or maybe it's not. But
there's only one way to find out, and
that's to go in. But he's not going to
do it alone. And he's not going to do it
today. That is where we're going to end
the scene. Chaos Factor is now at seven.
So characters, we have Dench.
So the threads uh explore the necroantic
temple, but also find allies. He needs
to hire henchmen or something. He's
going to have to roll in his knowledge
of wilderness to see if there is uh any
uh towns nearby where he could hire uh
uh mercenaries or hirelings to help him
go into this because he's definitely not
going to do this alone. The good thing
about Savage Worlds is that if he has a
bunch of hierlings uh that go in with
him, they'll all be extras and they're
all very easy to run. So, it's not like
I have to have a whole bunch of like
fully developed NPCs. It'll be very,
very basic. But, he's got to find them.
He's got to find them first. And that is
going to be the subject of the next
scene. So, join us next time to see what
happens to Simon. And remember, if you
like the show, by all means, like,
subscribe, comment, share on Facebook
and the Twitter and all the various
interweb sort of things. Thanks so much
for watching. We will see you next time
on Me, Myself, and Die.
Hello again, and welcome back to Me,
Myself, and Die. I am your intrepid
player, your intrepid game master,
Trevor Deval. When last we left Simon of
Argustan, he had stumbled across an old
necroantic temple and he was curious
about going inside because he thought
maybe there would be some information
about the fate of his parents within.
Remember, we know nothing about the fate
of his parents. We know that they were
taken by a great evil in the woods.
That's all we know. So, there is a
possibility that what he finds out in
this temple could in fact have something
to do with the fate of his parents. So,
he will have to go in. But before he
does that, he has to go and find allies
in what we hope is a nearby town.
Because the last time he tried to go in
by himself, he got his butt kicked by
the undead that were in the main temple
area just in the in the front door.
Luckily, he was saved at the very last
minute by the surprise appearance of
Morde. Once again, Morde is becoming a
very, very primary character. It turns
out Morde and his chieftain whose life
was Chief D. The two of them had been by
crazy coincidence stumbling through the
woods and encountered Simon as he was
blasting backwards trying not to be
chopped alive by these skeletons. They
destroyed the skeletons and went on
their merry way which left Simon
wounded. He was he took a wound from the
skeleton. So he does have to deal with
that first of all, but he's going to
have to find a settlement and hopefully
be able to hire somebody that he can
bring with him to explore this strange
necroantic temple which as I said he
believes has something to do with the
death of his parents. So, the first
thing he's he's going to need to do is
to deal with this wound. Like a lot of
things in life, Simon sucks at the
healing. Someone in the comments said
that uh Simon uh really should try a
different profession because he's
terrible at being an adventurer. True
words never spoken, my friend.
Nonetheless, he is the adventure we
have, so he's the one we're going to go
with. So, let's see how Simon manages to
heal himself. So, he's rolling his skill
die, the D4 and the D6 wild die as well.
However, he is wounded, which gives him
a minus one penalty. And unfortunately,
when you were trying to heal yourself,
you also take penalties as well. So,
he's basically rolling minus two. So,
essentially, he has to explode on this.
And does he do it? He does not. I'm
going to have to spend a Benny. Wow,
look at that. First Benny of the game
right out of the gate because this is
kind of important for him. He needs to
get out of this situation. And look at
that. We do in fact explode with a four.
Thank goodness. A four. Another explode
is eight. So, 9 minus 2 is seven. That
is a success. Each success gets rid of a
wound. He is no longer wounded. Woo,
thank goodness. So, he basically takes a
few minutes. It takes about 10 minutes
per healing attempt at Savage World. He
takes his his cloak. He rips off some
strips. He goes down to a nearby stream
uh babbling brook with nice clear fresh
running running water. He dips his his
uh makeshift bandages into the water and
begins to uh clean up the wound and ties
off the bandages on his wound and after
a few minutes is able to get back on his
feet. Now, the question is where is this
settlement and what is this settlement
and how far is it? So, the first thing
we were going to do uh from last time
was make a knowledge wilderness rule to
see if he knows of any settlements in
the area that are are near enough that
he can he can get to and hopefully find
some higherlings. So, he's going to do
once again this is a savage world. So,
his knowledge wilderness is also D4.
He does have skills that are better than
D4. His shooting is D8. His stealth is
D8. Uh but everything else kind of
sucks. So, he is going to make a
knowledge wilderness roll. Look at that.
Exploders. Both of them six and four. He
does know of a nearby settlement. I will
as fate chart this. Is it less than a
day's travel? Is it like just a few
hours away? We're at Chaos rank seven
now. I'm going to say it's probably
unlikely it's just a few hours away.
That would be a little too convenient.
And the answer is 79. No, it's not. So,
it is going to take him the full rest of
the day to get to this settlement, which
he does know is there. He also does not
have any money, so this could be
difficult.
[Laughter]
No money, no food, no hope, no friends.
What a guy. Our scene is going to open
up with Simon making his way through the
woods, arriving at this settlement as
night has fallen. It's going to take him
the whole rest of the day to do it. We
know nothing about the settlement, but I
do think it's a good opportunity to ask
the fate chart uh some questions about
the settlement. So, is the settlement
big? Like, is it a a major town? I doubt
it. We've sort of established we're kind
of on the frontier here. So, I'm going
to say that's very unlikely that it's a
big town.
25. In fact, it is a big town. Okay. So,
it's a large town. I'm going to go to
the Perilous Wilds uh supplement here
now because they have a lot of
interesting things to deal with what
they call steadings, which are villages,
towns, keeps, and cities. So, the town
it is booming. Okay. Interesting. Which
is good. That means he'll probably have
a much easier time finding someone to
help him. What is the name of the town?
So, I'm going to go to a new supplement
for the show. This is called The Book of
Random Tables by Matt Davids. And I will
put the link in the uh in the
information section of the show just
underneath. I like to just go back and
forth between a whole bunch of different
supplements because I think it's just
kind of I've got years and years and
years worth of stuff I've accumulated
from all of the games that I've played
and ran over the years. So, I'm just
kind of grabbing stuff at random and
going, "Yeah, I like this. I'm going to
use this." This is random tables, too.
He has uh a whole bunch of stuff in
here. One of which is a list of town
names. Hundra. Interesting name. Simon
comes across this large town. Is it
walled? Uh, it is a frontier town, so
I'd say that's there's a pretty good
chance it is in fact walled. We're going
to call that uh likely. Is it a walled
town? 60. Yes, it is. And because
there's walls and because it is at
night, there's a gate house. Of course
there is. And of course, there's going
to be guards at the gate. Uh, that just
makes perfect sense. So, Simon comes up
to the gate house and the guard
immediately hails him. We close the
gates at nightfall, stranger. What is
your business here? Hello, good man. I
merely seek a room for the night. You
have an inn, I trust. Yes, of course we
do. It's uh just off the main square.
You can't miss it. I thank you. The
guards open up the gates and Simon goes
in. It's a large booming town, so
there's a lot of people, although it is
uh towards the end of the evening. So,
he makes his way through the cobblestone
streets. Makes sense. The booming town,
they would have the money for such
things. He makes his way through the
cobblestone streets. There's a lot of
people going in and out of uh closing
shops, this sort of thing. And up ahead
on the very end of the square, he can
see the large inn and tavern. It's a
foregone conclusion. A large booming
town is going to have a big bustling inn
and tavern. The name of which is we're
going to the Book of Random table three.
The sailor's mess. I think that there's
a good chance that this is in fact the
edge of a sea. Oo, cool. Potential
opportunity for maritime adventures
here. Let's ask the fate chart. Is this
town of Hundora? Is this on the ocean?
Well, the in is called Sailor's Mass.
So, I'm going to say it's uh somewhat
likely that is in fact on the ocean. And
the answer is 50. So, yes, it is on the
ocean. Wow. Well, we just opened up a
whole new section of geography here. So,
Simon comes in. He can smell the salty
brine of the sea air uh coming in off
the off the wararf. And he makes his way
down to the docks where the sailor's
mess is standing perch. Now, this is a
booming town, so that means that there's
going to be a lot of trade here.
Presumably, the economy is going to be
doing very well. I mean, that's what
booming technically means. After all, I
think it's a very, very high quality in.
Probably can't afford to stay here. So,
he strolls into the sailor's mess. It's
a wellkept place although it is by the
docks and so there is going to be the
element of the ruffian about it. So he
comes in smoke hanging in the air right
away the sound of a band of sort maybe
playing on the the liar or playing on
the uh the drums. Off in the corner on a
small stage a roaring fire in the
hearth. Busy busy busy lots of people.
There's the den of of the crowd as he
comes in and uh makes his way up to the
bar, orders himself a drink, and uh you
know, pushes his way through the crowd,
sitting down looking to see if there's
anybody in the room who might obviously
be sort of the persons of illreute, you
know, adventurer type scum like him. Is
there going to be anybody in the bar
that fits the description of people he
might be looking for that he could uh
entice to come along with him on this
mad mad venture to go inside the temple.
So, let's find out. I think it's
somewhat likely that there is in fact
someone here. And we roll a 39. So,
there is. It's not an extreme. Yes. So,
it's not obvious. Oh, look. Yeah,
there's the guy I want to hire. But
there are uh people definitely here. He
sees one such person and goes up to
them. Let's find out who they are. Let's
use un for this. This person is 23. A
logical
84. A logical brute.
Okay. A logical brute.
Okay. What else do we know about this
person? A helpful. Well, that's good
news. Merchant. A logical brute. Helpful
merchant. This is a big big big brutish
looking guy, but he's ex exquisitly
dressed. He's clearly a wellto-do
merchant. He's sitting there. He's he's
eating the finest foods. He's drinking
the finest wines from across the sea.
But he sees Simon sort of coming through
the room and right away because he's
helpful. He says, "My friend, my friend,
won't you uh actually that's a weird
voice for a big brutish guy, isn't it?"
Uh, actually, it's an interesting idea.
Yeah, he's a big brutish guy, but he
he's a high talker. He's got the high
voice. It's bizarre. It's a very strange
thing. My friend, my friend, won't you
come and join me? Simon stops and sees
this guy there and he's like, "Uh, yes,
of course. I would gladly share a table
with you." "Yeah, do sit down. Would you
care for some wine?" "Yeah, thank you
very much." Uh, Mr.
and his name is going to be 97 North.
So, what's this guy all about? He
introduces himself as North. North the
merchant. He's going to be helpful. So,
I don't know if this is actually going
to be guy that's going to go with Simon,
but he might be able to point Simon in
the right direction. Let's find out a
little bit about North's motivation
here. So the motivation he wants to
pursue 69 dude moderation.
Pursue moderation.
Well, I think that basically then this
guy is in fact not drinking the finest
wine. I think he's drinking tea. It's
very expensive tea. Perhaps tea is
expensive in this part of the world
because it comes from across the sea.
The tea from across the sea. Yeah. So
he's he's actually not uh he's not
drinking wine. Nonetheless, Simon sits
down to him. Uh, listen, my friend. Uh,
I'll come right to the point. I am here
because I am looking to, uh, furnish an
expedition. I'm looking for people that
I could hire to come with me on, uh,
well, a bit of an adventure, actually.
An adventure. Well, I confess, I know
very little about such things. But, uh,
you know, I do know of some people
around here, some people in this very
establishment that uh, well, might be
willing to help you. Ah, if you could
put a word in for me with them, that
would be very helpful. I uh I do not uh
possess
much persuasive abilities, you see. My
my abilities are more confined to the
wilderness. Yes. Well, that seems
apparent. You seem dressed for the p. I
mean no disrespect. No, no, no. None
taken. You're absolutely right. But tell
me, if you do know someone in this very
establishment, as you say, I would I
would pay for the uh information. Well,
who does he point out? He's helpful and
he's he's already said that he's, you
know, he knows somebody here. Let's go
back to Un.
Oh, yes. Well, if you look over there,
right by the fire, you shall see a 29,
you shall see a solemn,
a very solemn person, you shall see a
solemn 75
soldier. Ooh.
If you look over there, that solemn
looking fighting man over there, you'll
see. His name is Edward. Ah, yes. Uh, I
do see him. He looks uh like he could
handle a blade. Yes. Yes. He is a
soldier by trade or an ex soldier in any
event. The wars have passed him on, it
seems. Well, um, what is he looking for?
What is he doing here? What does he
want? What is his motivation, you might
ask?
Oh, yes. Yes. Edbert the soldier. Well,
he's looking to um operate
ghosts. Interesting.
Well, to tell you the truth, my friend
Simon, uh Edbert, what's Edbert all
about? He's trying to operate ghosts.
What that means to me is that he's
trying to control a ghost. He's being
haunted. Edbert is a soldier who is
being haunted by someone that he killed
in battle. and his goal is to purge
himself of this haunting. So, the reason
why Edward looks so solemn is because he
almost never sleeps. And he's sitting
there looking very solemn, staring into
the fire, you know, long drawn features,
large deep circles under his eyes, and
he's sitting there staring. And every
now and then he seems to notice
something around him, or maybe he even
whispers whispers something. He's
looking a little sketched out, and he's
definitely sitting alone.
So, Edward, the solemn soldier, uh,
sitting staring
into the fire with the large dark
circles under his eyes.
Uh, every now and then speaking to
something that clearly isn't there. H,
Simon thinks, why not add this
particular lunatic to my to my cadre of
experiences. Edbert, it is said,
is haunted by the ghost of someone who
he slew in combat. I'm not entirely
certain what the particulars are, but uh
he is at the moment, as you can see,
quite friendless, and uh as so are you.
You might um you might find some common
ground with him. Yes. Well, I thank you
for that. Um do you mind if you
introduce me to him? Well, Edward is a
bit of a strange one, and he doesn't
particularly like to speak to people.
Begs the question what he's doing here
in the inn. Nonetheless, uh please, uh
my friend, uh North, I um I I would very
much appreciate an introduction. If
there's anything you could do at all,
well, I suppose I could be convinced or
persuaded, you might say, but not by
Simon, cuz he's terrible at everything
he does. Remember? Remember? Okay, so
Simon is going to try and persuade him
to make the introduction on his behalf,
but Simon sucks. He's rolling at a minus
two because he doesn't have the skill.
No, I'm afraid uh uh North says yes.
I would normally help you, my outsider
friend, my uh travel stained companion.
However, Edbert is somewhat on edge and
uh if you speak to him the wrong way, he
well, he's somewhat volatile. I would
just say be very careful. Uh approach
him. Well, that's good advice. I will do
just that. So, Simon makes his way over
to Edward. You can see Edward sitting
there sort of, you know, twitching,
twitching a little bit every now and
then.
Weird. So,
what I want to know is before we go too
much further with this encounter with
Edward, I just want to know what his
basic power level is. Is he uh as strong
as Simon? Is he less strong than Simon
or that whole thing? 56. So, he's
comparable to Simon. So, he's going to
be he's going to be fairly decent at
what he does, but not awesome at
virtually anything else. So, he's a
soldier. So, his fighting is going to be
really great. I'm just going to give him
sort of a fighting of D8. He's um he's
not bad at all. Simon pushes his way
through the crowd going up to Edward
who's sitting there staring at the fire.
Hello, my friend. Might I join you?
Edward looks up to him. Now, Edbert, we
know already, is not particularly liable
to speak to somebody here. He's not very
social. And Simon Oh, Simon also has
minus two charisma because he he sucks
so bad cuz he's an outsider. So, he
failed that role even worse. So, Edbert
kind of looks up at him. He's strong.
He's vigorous. Uh but he's he's really
quite sleepless. So I I'm going to give
him a different accent just to
differentiate him. I I I think uh it
might be it might be fine if he's Irish.
Why not? Sleepless Irish booger. Excuse
me, my friend. Uh might I join you? You
might, but I don't know why you'd want
to do that.
Well, um to tell you the truth, I have a
bit of a business proposition. the
merchant over there north, he uh has
pointed out that you are in need of
certain services that deal with um the
undead. That merchant best watch the
next time he runs his tongue like that.
Yes. Well,
I bring this up because as it turns out,
I am in the midst of exploring a uh an
ancient ruin in the woods. a ruin that
uh might directly have something to do
with your particular
issue, your haunting. I don't think
there's anything you could do for me, my
friend. Yes. Well, uh I'm not entirely
sure about that either, but the place
I'm going to was a an ancient temple to
a necromancer. It's possible that we
could find information there that might
help you rid yourself of this ghost,
whoever it is. What do you say to that?
I think that Simon has probably hit upon
the one thing that Edbert would actually
listen to because his his sort of eyes
perk up, you know, at the at the
prospect he's he's trying to get rid of
this ghost. So, I think that this crazy
long shot of this this outsider, this
this wilderness dude walking in and
saying, "Hey, I'm going to this place
where there might be a chance of of
finding some way to rid you of this
haunting." I think it's a long shot, but
I think Edbert might actually be willing
to take that that long shot. So, let's
find out. Uh, what's the odds that
Edward is even going to be amanable to
this at all? Originally, I was going to
say it's probably unlikely cuz he's kind
of antisocial, but because Simon has
said this specific thing that deals with
the ghost that's haunting him, I'm going
to increase that to very likely. So,
it's very likely that Edbert ex08
extreme. Yes. Okay, I'll do it. I'll go
with you. What was your name again? Ah,
forgive me. Simon of Augustan Thon. I'm
Edbert. You don't need to know me last
name. Right. When are we going? Well, I
was hoping to procure some other
mercenaries before we set out. I don't
think that's necessary. You and I can do
it. I think Edbert might be really
driven now. Is he Is he super driven to
do this? I think it's somewhat likely
that he's super driven to go. Yes.
There's no need for anybody else. You
and I can take care of this. You should
know, Edbert, that the temple itself is
guarded by the very denisins that the
necromancer was uh experimenting with. I
myself was driven out by three animated
skeletons, probably acolytes of uh the
priesthood that used to serve there.
There, I'm guessing, will definitely be
more dangers within. And it could
behoove us to have some sort of priest,
someone with the powers who could turn
such such creatures away. Well, are you
a man of faith? We've sort of
established that that Simon is sort of a
man of faith himself. Yes, I accept the
gods into my heart, all of them, and
strive to do their will when I can, but
I cannot call upon their powers. I think
he's just got to try and convince him.
Edward wants to go. Edward wants to go
like now. I think he's his interest is
perked. He wants to get up and go pack
his stuff and get out of here first
thing in the morning, but Simon's trying
to convince him. Otherwise, does Simon
convince him to stay? This is going to
be another persuade role, which he sucks
at. Persuade is at minus two.
Listen, if you know something about how
to get rid of hauntings, then I don't
want to wait around for any priests. We
should go the two of us. First light.
Very well, Edbert. We will set out in
the morning. I assure you, we will go.
But just give me the evening to try and
find someone else. You can spend your
last evening here however you like. I'm
going to finish this drink and go to
bed. And in the morning, I will see you
outside the front door. Right. Yes.
Right. I assure you. And then Edward
goes back to staring into the flames,
twitching.
So Simon now does not have a lot of time
to find somebody else to try and help
him. What are the odds that there is a
priest who is able to help him here in
the tavern? Let's ask the fate chart. It
is I'm going to say it's very unlikely
that there happens to be a priest
available. 60 there is not. So um I
think he's going to have to try and find
a temple in town and try and procure the
services of someone there. So, is there
a template of town? It's a booming town
on the sea, trade town. There's
definitely going to be some sort of uh
temple. I've established kind of in the
back in the background a little bit that
this this world that we're in here is a
polytheistic world. So, there are many
deities. I don't know anything about
them at this point, but we're going to
assume that there are a handful of
temples in this booming town. Probably
god uh there's a god of the sea. There'd
definitely be a god of trade here. Uh
but there might be a god of something
else here. But there's the point is
there's going to be a temple that he
could go to to try and see if he can
hire one of their their priests or even
even one of their acolytes to come with
him. Uh yes, there is definitely a
temple in town. So we we know that there
is a temple to the sea god and that
there's a temple to the merchant god,
but is there a temple maybe to like a
warrior god of some sort? That would be
really helpful if there was. Uh is there
a temple to a warrior god? I'm going to
say it's probably unlikely. We've
already got two temples in a booming
town. It makes sense. A warrior god in
this town. H, it's possible, but I'm
going to say it's unlikely. Is there a
temple to that? And we roll 57. It was
55, so no. So, he's going to have to
make do with one of the acolytes from
the merchant uh god or from the sea god.
So, he goes to the temple of the sea
god. Well, what do we know about the sea
god? First of all, is it a god or a
goddess? One to three. It's a god. It is
in fact a god. The sea god is a god of
maritime trade, the weather. That's
going to be a big thing for a sea god.
and like protection of sailors.
So, because this is called the sailor's
mess, um, and because it's right on the
docks, it's a very good chance that the
temple of the sea god is right there. In
fact, I'm not even going to roll because
it just makes sense. That's where the
temple of the sea god would be is right
at the edge of the sea. So, Simon makes
his way out into the night. There's a
chill wind blowing in off of the the
ocean. He doesn't have any time to do
this because he's already failed his
persuasion role to Edbert. So, they have
to leave first thing in the morning.
Simon walks into the temple and I I'm
I'm picturing a large blue green stone
altar at the end of a large hall. The
hall is sort of a dome. Actually, it's
not an altar exactly. It's a pool. It's
a rippling uh aquamarine pool carved out
of a blue green stone. Uh and there's a
couple of junior priests tending the
pool right now saying prayers over it. I
think there's a good chance there is a
handful of sailors who are also there
sort of kneeling in in a circle all
around this large pool. There is a
couple of priests who are leading
individual prayers for these sailors and
uh this is the scene that Simon walks in
on as he comes up. Is there a is there a
priest who is currently unoccupied with
one of the sailors? Um I'd say that's
somewhat likely
91. There is not. So all of the priests
are currently with the sailors. So he
has to sit there and wait very you know
he sort of he he kneels down. He is a
bit of a pious guy. We established that
in the introduction uh to the series. So
he kneels down be b b b b b b b b b b b
b b b b b b b b beside the sailors. He
doesn't have any particular connection
with the with the sea, but he does, as
we've just determined, he does hold and
respect all of the gods in his heart. So
he observes the various religious
rituals that the that the priests and
the and the sailors are doing. The
crucial thing here is does he get a
chance to speak to one of these priests
that he can hopefully hire before they
basically close up for the night? Let's
find Let's find out. I think it's um I
think it's 50/50 here.
04 extreme. Yes. Perfect. As it turns
out, the priests quite quickly uh wrap
up their various one-on-one
ministrations to their flock uh or their
school. I guess it wouldn't be a flock
of sheep, school of fish. And yeah, the
sailors get up and make their way out
into the night, leaving Simon alone with
a couple of the priests, actually. And
he stands up. Excuse me, my name is
Simon of Augustan. I am not an adherent
of your uh sea god here. Whose name?
What is the name of the sea god? That's
a good question. Let's get something
interesting. Morgus,
god of the sea. Forgive me, father. I uh
am not intimately familiar with the
worship of Morgus. But uh I was hoping
that one of your priests, perhaps a
junior priest, would be available for
hire to uh come with me on a mission of
some import. It deals with the purging
of the undead.
Well, do they have anyone available?
perhaps a junior acolyte that is looking
for experience to get out there. It's
probably unlikely, frankly. I think I
think that they have other things to
tend to besides like hiring out their
junior priest to whatever adventurer
comes along, but you know, there's a
chance. So, do they have anybody
available 74? They do not,
unfortunately. So, after a brief
conversation with the priests, the
priests kind of look at them and and you
know, shake their head. I am sorry uh my
friend, but um there is no one available
for such a mission at this time, but I
wish you the best of luck. And
unfortunately, he's got to leave
empty-handed. He goes back to the inn,
secures rooms for the night that allows
him to sleep, and the next morning, he
wakes up. He and Edbert, who is sitting
there outside the outside the inn, sort
of still kind of twitching twitching to
himself every now and then. Still dark
circles under his eyes. He clearly
hasn't slept at all. Um he sits there
and as soon as Simon comes down the
stairs through the common room and out
the door into the street, Edward stands.
Reight, are you ready to go? Cuz I am.
Yes. Unfortunately, I was not able to
procure the services of a holy man. So,
we'll be going in on our own. Are you
certain you want to do this? Yes. As I
said, I am eager to find out what these
necromancers might have known. If that
can help me, maybe can help you. Why are
we wasting time?
Right. Well, I would have preferred to
have some more time to find some other
hilings, but since you seem adamant,
very well, let us uh get on our way. And
that will conclude this scene. He uh
goes to the town of Hundora and hires
Edbert, haunted soldier. Characters,
Edbert the Haunted Soldier. And we know
that there is a merchant, a helpful
merchant named North. There is a new
thread as well. So, he is he's found
allies for his exploration, although not
the ones he wanted to. I'm going to add
the thread as well of exercise Edward's
ghost and the chaos factor. Simon was um
I think he was largely in control that
time. He didn't get everything he
wanted, but he did get some. So, I'm
just going to have it come back down to
six. So he is now the next morning with
Edbert setting out from the town of
Hundtorra and they are going back into
the mountain wilderness to go back to
the temple of Thuazanne. I just gave it
that name in order to plunder it and
seek answers for both Edward and Simon.
What will they find? We shall find out
together next time on Me myself and die.
Hello again and welcome back to Me,
Myself, and Die. I am your intrepid
host, game master, and player Trevor
Deval. Just a reminder, if you like the
show today, don't forget to subscribe
and leave a comment. I do read them,
believe it or not. I do read them. Also,
if you want to talk about the show on
the Twitters, with the Facebooks or the
Instagrams or all that stuff, every
little bit helps to get the news out.
So, uh, thanks for watching, by the way.
I really appreciate you guys keep, uh,
keep tuning in and subscribing it. It's
pretty cool to see those numbers go up.
So, uh, just know that I'm enjoying this
as much as, uh, hopefully you are. So,
when we last left off with Simon of
Augustan, he had just left the town of
Hundora, the walled seaside town of
Hundora, the walled booming seaside town
of Hundora. And we discovered a few
things about the world. We discovered
that there's a large ocean. We
discovered that there are a couple of
temples to a sea god and a trade god.
And we discover that there's a friendly
merchant in uh in town at the sailor's
mess who is now an NPC by the name of
North who may or may not be a help for
Simon again in the future. Also,
interestingly enough, Simon did manage
to find a hierling, someone who's mad
enough to go back to the uh necroantic
temple with him, a uh soldier, an
ex-soldier by the name of Edbert, who
was haunted by the ghost of someone who
he slew. So, these two have left
Hundorra behind and are now making their
way back up the mountain to find the
necrotic temple, go inside, and discover
what secrets it holds. Besides a quick
and horrible death, let's hope that's
not the case. So, the first thing we do
is determine the next morning. It's
going to take them a full day to get
there. We know what happens there. Let's
just determine the weather. Let's just
see what the weather's doing just so we
know. 17 is beautiful day, beautiful
summer's day leading into a beautiful
summer's evening by the time they get
there. or do they get there? Maybe
there's something that interrupts or
amends their scene in some way. The
chaos factor is six 10. So, no, it it
does not get interrupted or altered. So,
they arrive at the temple at the end of
the day just as the sun is setting and
they move up to the temple and they can
see the the shattered remains of the of
the skeletons out here. Now, I don't
know what's in this room. I'm going to
ask the perilous wilds. So, in keeping
with the forbidden knowledge theme of
this discovery that we made uh of this
room that we made last time. So, what is
forbidden knowledge about this? I think
that it has something to do with the
altar. I think the altar here has like
necroantic runes inscribed on it. Simon
and uh Edbert make their way up to the
altar. Okay. What do we What do we know
about this place from last time? We know
the place has been abandoned for a
couple hundred years. We know it was
overrun by monsters. We know he was
overrun by the undead. So, the question
is, is this alter has this alter been
used at all recently? I think that's
probably unlikely, but it's uh I'm going
to say very unlikely. Has this alter
been used recently? 09. That is an
extreme yes. Ooh. So, they get up to
that altar and Simon hasn't had a chance
to um to examine the altar. This is the
first ch first chance he's got to
examine the altar. and they spread out
and they see that the runes, the strange
necroantic runes that are carved in the
side of the stone altar are covered in
blood. And Simon reaches out and he
touches his finger to the altar. It's
fresh blood. Something has recently used
this altar. Well, has the altar been
used by one of the denisens of the
temple? I think that's pretty likely.
Going to call that likely. Factor 6 76.
Yes, correct. So, the the altar has been
recently used and it is covered in
blood.
Simon looks to uh Edbert. Well, it seems
that the dead do not rest quietly in
this place. I think we should press on.
There's nothing to find here, is there?
Simon can't read these runes. He has no
idea what this means. He has no
knowledge of any kind of like magical uh
uh uh rituals, anything like this. This
is a total mystery to him. I suppose
there's a tiny chance that maybe Edbert
knows something about this. He was a
soldier. Maybe he fought in some weird
places. You know, maybe he fought
against the undead at one place. I'm
going to call that it's no way. There's
no way he knows anything about this. 09.
He does. He actually knows something
about this. Edward goes up to the runes
carved in the altar and he looks at them
and he says, "I can read this."
Simon's incredulous. You know what this
means? I'm no necromancer, but I know
what this ritual is. Well, I don't I
don't know what the ritual is. So, I'm
just going to randomly determine what
the ritual is by rolling on the fate
chart uh rolling uh an act an event,
action, and subject. So, what is this
ritual all about? This ritual is about
oppress 13. War oppress war. So, against
war to stop war from happening, that's
how I interpret that. So, the creature
that is responsible, presumably the
undead creature that's using this
temple, is using it to stop a war. Well,
that's really odd. The the master of
this temple, whoever that is, has
recently awakened and is using the power
of this temple to call upon their god,
their dark god, whatever that is,
whoever that is, to stop a war from
happening. A war on this place. Yeah, I
think that's probably a good bet that
there's some other group that's trying
to wipe out this group of undead. Maybe.
Sure. Uh, let's find out. 50/50 on that.
18. The answer is yes. You know what I
think it is? I think it's a group of
undead hunters. I think it's a group of
like paladins, clerics, this kind of
thing. I think it's a holy group of
people that are trying that are on their
way even now to wipe this place out.
Now, Simon knows nothing about this.
that the temple of Thurzen is about to
be cleansed by the order of the
purifying flame.
So, it's it's some sort of clerical
order that's coming to destroy this
place. And the the the creature,
whatever. I keep wanting to call it a
lich. I don't know if it's a lich. I
hope it's not a lich cuz if it's a lich,
these guys are probably dead. Well,
let's let's let's find out. Let's just
get this out of the way. Is it some sort
of powerful lich that is actually at the
heart of this temple that's doing this?
I'm going to say there's no way. There's
no way. No. In fact, I'm going to say
it's imp it's impossible that that's the
case. I'm going to give myself a break
here. 41. No, it is not a spell-casting
lich that's going to kill Simon and
Edward immediately. Like that. Like
that. Like that. Which is good. Gives us
a fighting chance. But whatever is the
master of this place is currently trying
to bolster the defenses because it knows
somehow perhaps through some miracular
device that this order of the purifying
flame is on route. Now, I don't know if
they're going to get here while Simon is
still here, but I'm going to keep that
in mind. So Edbert looks at these
necroantic runes and he says to Simon,
"This is a warding spell of some sort.
I've seen this before. Someone here is
trying to create a protective shell
around this place so that it cannot be
entered."
I don't know who they're thinking of
protecting this place from, but it's
recent as you can see.
>> Yes, we best press on. They decide to
leave through the center chamber. What
do they find in the center chamber? Uh,
we're going to go to our book and we're
going to see. So, they walk down a
corridor for some time. Simon lights a
torch because it's pitch black in here.
Uh, there's a terrible smell of rot and
decay coming through this whole area. We
roll our d12 to see what they find when
they leave the area. 11. unique
discovery and a danger and it is also a
themed area. Well, like to keep things
interesting, that's for sure. Forbidden
knowledge once again, it's one of the
unique areas, the kitchens. What's
forbidden about the necromancy
is going to be, and this is all stuff
you can find right here in the Perilous
Wilds. Again, this this supplement is
designed for dungeon world, but I use it
for this because it works just as well.
All right, the discovery is going to be
a feature, an alter platform. So,
there's another altar in the kitchens.
Interesting. Maybe there's little altars
all throughout this area. What is the
danger, though? It's a creature, of
course. And what is the creature doing?
The creature is sleeping. Is this an
undead creature? It says sleeping, but
undead don't sleep. So, I don't think it
is undead. Let's say there's no way it's
undead. How could an undead be asleep,
right? 48. No. So, it's definitely not
undead. So, this is something else
that's gone into the temple.
and is sleeping. Humanoid. What are
they? They are hobgoblin.
What's a hobgoblin doing in an undead
temple that is clearly active and
sleeping?
Oh, is it is it has it been put to
sleep? Has it been in sourc? Is it a
sorcerer sleep? Yes. So, uh how many
hobgoblins are there, by the way? How
many hobgoblins are asleep? There are
six sleeping hobgoblins in this area in
the kitchens. So, Simon and Edbert creep
into what is obviously an old run-down
kitchen. Weirdly, in the center of the
kitchen, there is also another altar,
very much like the altar that they found
in the main temple, smaller this time,
but still the same construction. And
Edward even points out the exact same
necromantic runes around it. But in the
kitchen, clearly slumped over tables,
slumped over countertops, are a group of
hobgoblins. Big burly regular goblins,
like bigger, tougher, tuskier cousin.
And there's six of them. And they're all
they're clearly down for the count. Was
it a trap that put them asleep? I have
no idea. 50/50.
09. Yes, exceptionally yes. Which means
the trap is still active. So Edbert and
Simon creep into the room into the
kitchen. It's a fairly large area, but
again old. Everything's covered in
cobwebs. There's a layer of thick dust
on everything. I think there's basically
skeletons everywhere in this place
because it was overrun by monsters. So
the undead creations did sort of break
free and kill their priestly masters.
So, there's the remains of of uh a bunch
of uh priests who look like they were
slaughtered while they were at at
supper, basically. But among them are
these sleeping goblins. One of them is
slumped over a table. Another one's
right in front of them by the doorway.
What kind of trap is it? Like a pressure
plate? I don't think it's a pressure
plate, but it might be. I'm going to
call that very unlikely.
30. Yes, it is. It is a pressure plate.
Okay. So, as they walk in again, the the
floor of the kitchen covered in grime,
mildew, the whole place reeks of this
this decay scent. Uh, and now the smell
of hobgoblins as well. But as uh Simon
and Edward walk in, the question now is,
do they see the pressure plate before
they This is going to be notice rolls.
GH, he sucks. I say that a lot in this
show. Simon sucks. I think I've noticed
that. He's got a notice of D4. Does he
see it? Four. he will succeed. So yes,
he does see it. Edwards notices D6. He
explodes, of course. Uh nine. So he
succeeds with a raise. Edbert suddenly
puts his hand out in front in front of
Simon. And Simon stops and looks down.
And Edbert kind of very quietly points
out on the floor. And there's a section
of the floor. There's a a big flag stone
in the floor that's just higher than the
rest of the flag stones. Almost like
it's some sort of well pressure plate.
Edward looks at that and he whispers to
Simon, "I've seen things like this
before. I think this is some sort of
trap. It may be the trap that put these
creatures asleep." They gingerely step
around the pressure plate. Now, the
question is, do they dispatch these
hobgoblins?
I think there's a good chance that
Edward's definitely going to want to do
that. He's encountered these creatures
before as a soldier, and he knows that
if these things come running up uh
running up behind him, it's going to be
bad news. Uh, I think it's very likely
he wants to do that. KS Factor 6 08.
Absolutely. Yes. In fact, he doesn't
even wait to tell Simon. He just pulls
out his knife and goes up and cuts one's
throat. Simon looks. Here's the thing.
If they blow it and wake one of them up
before the job is done. So, here's what
we're going to do. These things are
asleep, but sleep in savage worlds means
that if you make any kind of noise,
normal noise, that could rouse them from
their slumber. So, can they murder these
creatures in their sleep?
They're monsters. They're hobgoblins.
They're evil. They got to go. Can they
do it quietly? We're going to do a
stealth roll. Simon's really good at
this. He's going to roll d8 and a d6. If
he fails on this, one or more of those
hobgoblins are going to wake up. Boom.
He rolls a success with a seven. Edbert
has a d6, so he's an extra. He doesn't
roll the wild eye. He also succeeds. So,
they are able to dispatch all six
hobgoblins, adding their blood to the
altar. That can't be good.
Here's the thing. Actually, that's a
good question. Does taking a life in
this necroantic temple, especially
around an altar, does taking a life in
this necroantic temple, does that
somehow feed the the the fell magics
that are here? Does this somehow
increase the power of the ritual? I
think that's I think that's probably
pretty likely. I'm going to say uh
that's very likely on Chaos Factor 6 and
we roll a 70. Yeah. So, okay. So, little
do they know that their act of
dispatching these sleeping hobgoblins as
the blood pours freely from the the uh
dispatched creatures. The blood mingles
with the other blood that was on the
altar. And as Simon and Edbert are
walking out of the room, out of the
kitchens to the the north, we'll say,
they see Well, they don't see only we
see. Only the viewer, the viewers, all
of you get to see the blood sort of like
dribble down and sort of make its way
into the grooves of those necroantic r
uh runes that are carved in the altar.
And there's a bit of a hellish red glow
that uh pulses up and fades behind them
as they leave. Oo, that can't be good.
All right, what do they find as they
continue their exploration through the
north door? So, they find a common area.
One of the common areas on our list is
going to be 11, which is the equipment
storage, but there's a discovery and a
danger. Um, there's going to be 1d4
discoveries. As a matter of fact,
there's going to be four. The first one,
a pit shaft chasm. I think that there's
been some sort of earthquake or some
sort of rent in the earth that has split
the wall asunder and created a a rent in
this room. Maybe like splitting it in
two. The next thing is bridge, stairs,
and a ramp. I I think that there's
actually like makeshift bridge, like a
couple of planks, maybe an old table
from the kitchens acting as a as a
bridge across the chasm. And the other
discovery in this room is a find coins,
gems, jewelry. Well, it's about time.
And the other discovery is going to be
magic pool statue or idol. So this is an
equipment storage room that has been
rent aunderder by some cataclysm in the
mountains which has split the room in
two. Someone has put down a temporary
bridge, a wooden bridge. There is an
idol amongst the equipment storage.
There's going to be some type of gear
here. I don't know whether it's going to
be useful or not. We'll find that out in
a second. But there's some sort of idol.
And this was a temple after all. Also,
it makes sense that in in in little uh
depressions in the wall and little like
um al coes and such, maybe there's
there's little, you know, skeleton
headed statues or skulls or something
like that. Some sort of some sort of
magic idol. But what's the danger? A
creature. What is the creature doing?
Dying. Oh, well, I know what this is.
This is the creature whose blood has
been smeared on all of the uh other the
other altars. But what is the creature?
Is a human. Hm. Uh, so it's going to be
a hunter of some sort. Oh, wouldn't it
be interesting if that was the hunter
that uh that owned the cabin?
The reason why the the cabin that Simon
stayed in was unoccupied is because the
hunter who used it had uh accidentally
wandered into this temple some time ago,
but not that long ago because he's lying
here dying. So, he is still alive. But
that's a danger though. Oh, I know why.
I know why this hunter represents a
danger.
We're about to find out. So, Simon and
Edbert, I want to say Eggbert, but
that's silly name, isn't it? Simon and
Edbert make their way down the hideous
smelling hallway. Again, the stench of
rot and decay everywhere. And they come
across to a room which is basically a
dead end. It's a rather large room. And
they can see all kinds of storage racks
everywhere, all kinds of gear, devices,
you know, mostly for the running of a
temple. So, there's going to be lots of
like erns and vials and like robes and
things like this. The room itself has
been rent in half and there's this
chasm, but someone has slammed this old
uh uh table from the kitchen presumably
or the remains of the table across the
chasm. And at the far end of the room
are a series of little aloves and in the
center of uh in the middle al cove is a
idol which is sitting there with a
death's head skull on it. at the base of
the idol. Blood still trailing across
that bridge, across that table leading
up to the entrance of the room where
Simon and Edward now stand, is a man. Is
a human. Well, I don't know if he's a
man, actually. Wonder. Maybe he's a man.
Yes, he's a man. Clearly a hunter of
some sort. He He has all the trappings
one would expect on a typical hunter.
So, he's got like an empty air, a quiver
at his side. He's He's wearing, you
know, some some animal skins, things
like this. But they walk in, they can
see across this chasm. There he is. He's
lying
now. He's He has several cuts. He is
dying. So, I think he's got like he's
got big slashes on his forearms like
this. And I think that he's got a big
cut and he I think he's like sitting
there choking choking like this. His
blood is pouring out of his wounds. No,
he does represent a danger, but I'll
show you why in a second. Right away,
Simon's like, "We have to help him."
Edward puts his hand. No, I think it's a
trap. I think it's a trap, mate. No, we
have to help him. Simon moves across the
uh the planks. Simon gets up to him and
attempts to heal him. He attempts to
stabilize him. The guy's dying. It's bad
news. Simon is going to do a healing.
He's not very good at this, but he does
have a d6. The guy is dying. He's an
extra, so there's no wound penalties. If
he was a wild card, there would be. He's
going to roll. He succeeds. So, he
stabilizes the man.
The man is in terrible shape. He He's
dying. So, I don't think he's going to
get up and haha, I'm ready to help you,
Simon. No, I think he's like lying there
dying. But as Simon is doing this,
Edbert comes in and Edbert sort of
looking around and right away he starts
to flitch and twitch and he starts to
realize that his ghost that is haunting
him is becoming very agitated. Very,
very agitated. It's almost like what
Edbert sees is is the the spirit of this
person who we know nothing about yet,
but you know, that may become relevant
later. The spirit of this person is like
swirling around, whispering, chittering
in his ear.
And Edbert's like, "Stop it. Stop it.
Stop it. Get out of my head. Stop it."
Is the ghost responding to the idol? It
is somewhat likely. We'll say 78. Yes.
So, the ghost is whispering and
chittering at Edward
like it wants. It It keeps like
screaming and crying and pointing at the
idol. And Edward looks at the idol and
Simon in the meantime. Simon's, you
know, still tending the wound. And then
he starts to hear this sound, this
hideous wailing almost like like uh like
the sound of ultimate sorrow coming from
this skullheaded idol in the al cove.
And it begins does it begin to glow? 35.
Yes. It's about to cast some horrible
spell on them or some some terrible fell
necroantic magic is about to come out of
this uh idol. Well, we already know that
there is a sleep trap in this place. So,
I think sleep is associated with this
god like the the eternal sleep, the
ultimate sleep. This is this is the
final sleep, right? This is what this
whole temple is dedicated to is death.
This is yet another kind of sleep spell
kind of thing. It's going to do a spirit
roll, I think. Um, what is the power
level of this idol? Is it equal power to
them? Uh, I don't know. 50/50. Is it
equal power to them? Uh, 18. Yes. So, it
is equal power to them. So, I'm going to
say that it's a D8. This keening, this
wailing starts coming from the idol, and
it begins to chant these words. It's not
a very effective spell, though. So, that
means that both Simon and Edbert and the
hunter all have to do spirit rolls.
Let's do Edbert first. Does he fall
asleep? He does. Edward drops to the
ground on the far side of the chasm. Not
into the chasm luckily, but on the far
side of the chasm. And Simon, ah, he
steals himself as best he can against
this keening whale coming from this
idol. Does he succeed? He does succeed.
He does not fall asleep. Oh, and the the
dying hunter succeeds as well. So,
Edbert just kind of drops. But as this
keening whale sound starts to echo
through the corridors behind and this
hideous pull, the pull to the eternal
sleep pulls on Simon, but he's able to
shake it off. I think that the thing
that has been using the altars
is coming because this hunter is clearly
the sacrificial victim who somehow broke
free from the thing that is that is
using the altars to cast a spell. And I
think this thing is about to find
all of our group in this room. Is that
the case? Is the thing, whatever it is,
bearing down upon them? I'm going to
call it 50/50. Here we go. Is it bearing
down upon them? Yes, it is. What is the
thing coming for Simon and Edbert and
this dying man in this temple? What will
happen once it arrives? Is it a lich?
No, it's not. We know it's not, but I
don't know what it is. But if you tune
in next time, we will find out what it
is together. Remember to hit like and
subscribe, and I will see you next time
on Me, Myself, and Die.
[Music]
Hello and welcome back once again to Me,
Myself, and I. I am your intrepid host,
game master, and player, Trevor Deval.
Uh, thanks so much for watching. Thanks
so much for continuing to watch. And,
um, by all means, if you like the show,
don't forget to hit like and subscribe,
and if you make a comment, and you know,
the usual spiel about the Facebooks and
the Twitters and all that stuff. Simon
and his Urstw Oishrish companion or
that's the accent anyway. Edbert had
decided to go back to the necroantic
temple for reasons of their own. Simon
because he thought that the temple might
have something to do with the
disappearance of his parents which is a
thread that he's following quite
closely. And Edbert wanted to go because
he believed that there might be some
sort of answers to how he could exercise
his ghost. Inside there was the main
temple area right at the beginning and
uh that's where Simon and Edbert
discovered there was a series of
necroantic runes around a large altar.
But more importantly that altar was
covered in blood which indicated that
there was some ritual currently being
enacted right now by some still living
or unliving denisin of the temple. Then
they made their way to a storage area
which was a large room that was rent in
half by some sort of cataclysm.
Basically causing a giant chasm to
separate the two sections of the room.
But that chasm had been bridged by a
table. But on the inside of that storage
area, they found a bunch of things like
priestly supplies, things like this. Uh
as well as some gems and jewelry lying
about. Oo, hooray. But they found a
dying hunter who we have already
established was the um the hunter who
owned the cabin way back in episode 2.
Simon ran up, stabilized the hunter's
wounds, and at that moment, this statue,
we're just using that to represent the
statue right now. It was like a large
skull in an alco. Basically, there was a
strange keening whale that started to
come off the statue. It emitted another
spell, like a sleep spell, which caused
Edward here to fall asleep. This is his
little ghost. Ooh, it's ghost is
freaking out.
At the exact moment that coming from
down the corridor was the thing that was
responsible for for covering all of
these various altars in blood and
enacting a ritual that was designed to
create a magical barrier to keep the
order of the purifying flame out of the
temple. They're a group of paladins and
clerics and such that are coming here to
cleanse the temple. Simon knows nothing
about these people, but we do. So we
begin now with determining what is the
thing that is coming for Simon or
specifically I think coming for the
hunter because presumably this hunter
had escaped this thing as it's trying to
enact the ritual. It escaped the thing
and now the thing has has tracked the
hunter down tracking his blood obviously
down this way and is coming up or rather
coming down this hallway here. We know
from last session it's not a lich but we
need to know what this thing is. So I
have an idea. He suspects that this
temple had something to do with his
parents' disappearance. He knows that
his parents were taken by a great evil,
a great evil in the woods. This might be
the source of that evil. So my question
is, the thing that's coming,
is it in fact a hideous mummified undead
version of his mother?
Is that a thing? Let's find out. The
chaos factor was at six last time. I
think because we ended on a cliffhanger
and everything is really ramping up out
of control, we are going to boost that
chaos factor back up to seven. Is this
thing that is coming that is that is uh
enacting the ritual. Is it in fact
Simon's undead mother that you know, we
don't know what happened. Maybe she got
the parents got captured, put in here uh
by some terrible ritual, were turned
into undead guardians of the tomb.
That's horrible. But maybe it's the
case. Let's find out. I'm going to say
it's um I'm still going to say it's
unlikely. I don't think it's actually
her, but chaos factor 7. Unlikely. It's
a 55% chance of a yes. And we roll 52.
Okay. All right. Well, we know the thing
coming down the hallway is Simon's
undead mother. She has been taken by the
evil in this temple. We still don't know
what the source of that evil is. And uh
turned So, she's obviously dead. Oh
well. She's been turned into some sort
of hideous creature. We're going to call
her like Well, we'll call her a mummy.
Why not? Yes. Uh living up to her name
in a very literal sense. We know that
this creature mummy is uh trying to
enact this ritual. So, I guess my next
question is, does she still retain any
of her intelligence? I'd probably say
because she's a mummy, she's been turned
into this horrible creature. I think
it's probably very unlikely she has
intelligence left. Does she have
intelligence 84? No, she does not. So,
she is basically an undead automaton.
That's kind of sad because I was hoping
there might be an opportunity for Simon
to be able to talk to her. But whatever
happened to her, her living brain and
personality is obviously completely
subsumed by this undead thing.
Nonetheless, Simon's undead mother
tasked with performing sacrifices to uh
enact this ritual, protect the temple.
So that means that the evil of this
temple is what was responsible for
turning Simon's mother into this. And
also, where's the father? We don't know,
maybe the father's around here, too. But
it also means that the power that is
responsible for this could still be
somewhere in this temple. That's
something to keep in mind. Oh, also the
the the ritual here that that Simon's
mother is trying to enact is stronger.
It's going to be stronger because of the
killing of the the uh sleeping
hobgoblins in the um in the kitchens. So
that means that if the order of
purifying flame actually does show up at
some point during this, it's going to be
much harder for them to to break the
magical barrier. But we'll deal with
that if it comes up. It might not. They
might not show up uh until long after
Simon is dead, killed by his own mother.
Let's hope it doesn't come to that.
Let's get a mini for her. Oh, look at
that. Oh, it's a Scottish mummy. Look at
that. Well, no. His his mother is not
going to have that accent. His mother is
in fact going to have the accent because
she's a mindless automaton. So, we're
going to start the thing there. Simon
hears this coming down. He turns and in
the dim luminescence of this corridor,
again, the smell of rotten decay, very,
very powerful here. He turns and he sees
all the way down the corridor here, he
sees his mother or something that was
once his mother. Ooh, but she is
desiccated and she's covered in these
rags. Her eyes are all like completely
black, but there's this hideous sense of
evil magic radiating off of her. I think
the first thing that's going to happen
here is Simon who turns to see her and
sees and mother. He's going to make a
spirit roll, man. He's got to make the
equivalent of a guts check in Savage
Worlds. And if he fails this, I think
he's going to be pretty staggered by
this. He's got to get four more on this
one. He does. Oh boy. He's freaking out,
but he's he he realizes the immediate
danger. Now, first of all, before we go
any further with this, cuz this is going
to be some sort of a conflict, which I'm
going to guess because she's a mindless
automaton, it's going to be a violent
one as opposed to a nice conversation.
He might get a chance to talk to his
daddy if he finds him in here. We'll
see. I'm going to be using this right
here. This is the fantasy companion for
Savage Rules. This is also designed for
the uh Explorers Edition. So, this is an
older version um for an older version of
the game, but it it's all the same
basically. So, this is a guardian mummy,
which makes sense because she's an
automaton. Where we at right now? We've
got the hunter who's going to act on
Simon's initiative. And we've also got
Edbert. He's also going to be on Simon's
initiative, but right now he's he's
asleep, so he's going to have to be
woken up by a large sound. So, Simon's
probably going to have to deal with
that. So, oh, we'll give a quick shuffle
cuz I don't know if we did this before.
Simon's got to fight his own mother. Oh,
boy. Oh, boy. And mom, if you're
watching, this is no reflection on you.
I don't see you as an undead
monstrosity. I don't. for I love you.
You'll see. All right, here we go. So,
Simon is on six. He's quick, which means
that he
which means that he redraws cards of
five or lower. But so, this is
essentially the worst card Simon could
pull. Well, we're off to a great start.
All right. And the mummy is on seven.
Well, that's very close. So, the mummy
is principally going after the hunter,
but sees, you know, sees a new victim
here. There's this ghost right there,
which presumably the mummy can see. I'm
not. Simon can't see the ghost. The
mummy is going to run. So, the mummy's
going to move six, but it's going to
run, which means that's its action. So,
it's going to roll a d4 cuz it's got a
shuffling gate plus two. It's going to
roll eight. Each of these little squares
here are 1 in. So, he's going to We'll
start her right here. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8.
Gets right up to Edbert, but can no
longer act because uh she's used her
action. So, Simon on six. So he quickly
turns around and he looks anywhere he
can to see if there is anything of use.
Does he see anything? Well, first of
all, we have to see if there is anything
of use. There's four levels of treasure.
Uh trove, rich, worthwhile, and meager.
Simply because we did roll gems and
jewelry as part of the discoveries from
the Perilous Wilds book. I'm going to
say this is a worthwhile treasure, which
means that we already know that there's
going to be money, but money is not
important right now. He needs to know if
there's any basically a magic item, if
there's something of use. There is a 25%
chance according to this that there's a
that there is a Oh my god.
26.
[Laughter]
Somebody wrote in the comments #Simon
sucks. I am going to make a shirt or a
mug or something called Simon sucks
because clearly he does. Okay. Well,
there's nothing of use. Was that his
action? Uh, it was a quick perception
check. So, I think yes, I think to do
like a full scan of the room. That was
his action. So, we are going to go back
to initiative. Here we have Simon. Boom.
Oh my god, he's back.
#Simon sucks. And the mummy lord is
Mumsy is on the Joker. Well, Simon did
yell in the previous round. Edbot, wake
up. I'm going to give him a roll to see
if he can I'm going to do a vigor check
for Simon to see if he can bellow at the
top of his lungs. This was the previous
round to see if he can wake up Edbert so
that Edbert can actually do something.
We're looking for fours. Looking for
fours.
Of course, first Benny of the game is
spent. Boom. He's got to reroll that cuz
this is pretty important. Vigor check.
Come on, buddy. There we go. Okay, so he
does succeed. Edbert, get up. And Edbert
rouses himself
at the end of the round. He would have
acted on Sims edition of two. So I'm
going to say that he sort of got up be
right as this mummy was was coming up.
Now his ghost is freaking out as well.
Nonetheless, the mummy goes first. So
here's my question. Does the mummy see
Simon across the way? Does it recognize
her son? There's still a chance. I'm
going to say this is there's no way that
this thing recognizes her son, but
there's a chance. Here we go. Chaos
Vector 7. Uh, no, it does not. Oh,
here's a question. Does the mummy see
the ghost? Is the mummy registering the
fact that there's another ghost around
this thing? And does that have an
effect? That would make sense to me. 55.
Yes. So, it does see Oh, but look at
that. Look what I just did. I rolled 55,
which is under our chaos factor. So, we
know that the the mummy is going to
definitely see the ghost and recognize
this. That may have an effect on what it
does. But before we get to that, we have
our very first random event of the game.
Woohoo.
First of all, we do the event focus,
which is 63, which is PC negative.
Naturally, something bad happens to
Simon.
PC negative. 23. Judge 57
tactics. Judgment of tactics. That means
to me that Simon has made a crucial
error. And I think the error he has made
is turning his back on that statue.
Something is about to happen with that
statue. Something bad. It comes to life.
Now, it this is not this statue here.
I've made it look like it's a big
forearm skeleton just cuz that's the
only mini I have. Anyone who wants to
send me more minis to put in the show,
just let me know. There's this sound of
rupturing stone and and bits of masonry
and dust begin to crumble from around
the statue and the head bursts forward
out of the elo followed by an attached
body with uh four arm well yeah sure
we'll call it forearms. I'm going to be
nice to myself and say that it does not
attack on the Joker that its whole round
uh basically bursts forward coming to
life. We're going to come up with stats
for this thing in a second. So the mummy
has seen the ghost. I wonder if that has
any effect. Does that mean that the
thing is going to bypass Edbert?
Remember, this thing is mindless. It's
an automaton. It's just going through
the motion. So, it's not going to have
any critical reasoning faculties. It's
not going to say, "Now, wait a minute. I
believe this ghost with his man means
something." It's not going to do that.
It's going to I think there's a very
good chance that it's going to just
ignore Edbert and go right for the
hunter here. The hunter who's
stabilized, but as I said last uh
episode, really not able to fight cuz
it's uh he's he's he's in bad shape. The
question is, does Mummy ignore Edbert
and the ghost and try and go right to
the hunter?
Uh, 85 is a yes. As it moves past
Edward, Edbert who's on his feet as of
last round, he turns and he will get an
attack of opportunity on this thing.
Okay, Edbert back on his feet. Wham!
hits with his long sword. He's rolling a
fighting. He is not a wild card, by the
way. Some of you in the comments had
asked if Edward is a wild card, and I
said he's an extra. And that's true. He
is an extra. But I'll tell you what,
because everyone seems to like this
character so much already. If he
survives this, well, we'll promote him
to a wild card, which could frankly save
Simon's bacon. Okay, so he is going to
do his attack against six, he'll miss.
The thing gets up to the hunter. It
needs to grab the hunter and move it
back to or move him rather back to uh
the altar. So, its purpose here, mummy's
purpose here, isn't to kill the hunter.
It's to grab the hunter. So, what we're
going to do is we're going to do a
unarmed attack. Basically, this thing is
going to roll a d8 and it
it's going to grab the hunter. No
problem, I think. So, the mummy bursts
in over the table, comes up over here,
immediately goes and grabs the hunter
and begin then turns around as if to
take the hunter away. Simon sees this.
He He's He's got his long sword out. He
moves up and he slashes at the
retreating mummy at his retreating
mummy. I can't believe that. So bizarre.
So he is going to roll his fighting and
his fighting as we know sucks. He swings
his sword and he will miss because the
parry is six. Edbert on the other hand,
Edbert's going to leap across, go
running across here and interpose
himself here to try and attack and he
will miss because the par six the ghost
as well. Does the ghost have any
interest in Edward's self-preservation?
Again, we don't know anything about the
nature of this haunting. It is possible
that the ghost actually wants to keep
Edward alive so that Edward can atone.
Let's find out. Luckily, we have the
fate chart to answer these questions. I
don't really know. I'm going to call it
50/50. And the answer is 60. So yes, the
ghost has a vested interest in keeping
Edward alive. Basically, this is like a
poltergeist. So all it can do is huck
things. So his ghost basically goes over
here, grabs an item from these chests,
some sort of maybe a giant like metal
chalice or something and hucks this
chalice at the retreating mummy. Now
check this stuff out. The ghost attacks
on a D12.
Wow. And the mummy is going to
unfortunately miss. So, this chalice
sails by Simon's head, smashing into the
wall there. Now, we go back to uh
initiative. Simon is on king and the
baddies are on Jack. Simon, he's made a
bad judgment of tactics, so I don't even
necessarily think he's entirely aware.
I'm going to give him a quick
perception. He does not. So, Simon is
unaware of this thing coming up behind
him. Edbert, however, sees it. Uh, but
Edbert's pretty intent on blocking the
area from the mummy. So, Edbert is going
to attack with his sword. He will miss.
He's unable to penetrate the mummy's
defenses. Basically, he's trying not to
hit the hunter because the mummy has got
the hunter slung over her shoulder.
Simon, who does not see the forearmmed
uh statue behind him, also is going to
attack. His fighting is a d6. He's
basically got to explode. He will miss,
unfortunately. And the ghost once again
picks up another object and hurls it at
the mummy and will hit. Yes. Now, the
ghost does a d6 and a d4 damage. Now,
here's the thing. This mummy has
unbelievable toughness. 10
The damage is eight, but that will
explode cuz it's a four. 8 + 2 is 10.
So, the ghost picks up some object and
hurls it at the back of the mummy's
head, which clunks it on the head,
dislodging its desiccated undead brain
for a second. It causes it to be shaken.
Now, here's the thing. I want to know
what exactly, as we take a little pause
in this combat here, what exactly did
the mummy throw? Well, we can find out.
So, we are going to go to Book of Random
Tables 3 and we're going to go to items
in a chest. Uh 79, which means that
doesn't make any sense. A feather.
So, sometimes when you're doing things
completely randomly, you have to roll
because certain results just do not make
any sense. So, instead, Oh, books.
That's kind of cool. So the the
poltergeist goes over, it picks up this
big tome and hucks it at the back of the
mummy's head. Conchk, which stuns it,
shakes it for one second. Shaken is of
course a spirit roll and it'll roll d10.
Okay, d10 plus two. I can't see any way
that this would fail.
1 plus 2 is three. The mummy remains
shaken. A little bit of good luck for
Simon and friends for a change. Who
knew? Meanwhile, this crazy animated
statue over here, it is going to move up
to Simon, its first obvious target. So,
even though Simon did fail his
perception, uh, as this thing is moving
towards him, basically, I I think that
Edward would see it and he would just
call, Simon, behind you, which just
gives him a chance to avoid getting the
drop on him cuz otherwise that'd be a
plus four to hit and damage. And it just
makes sense tactically here that that
would happen. So, it fights on a d6 and
it will, of course, it'll explode. So,
it'll roll 10. He's going to hit Simon
with a raise. Pow. This is the the
damage it does on Simon. Simon's
toughness is six. And it does four
against toughness six. It does not shake
Simon. Simon's able to interpose his
sword just at the last second and catch
a piece of the blow. Kink. Now we go
back to initiative. Simon and friends.
H. Simon is quick, so he's going to roll
again. Eight. Simon's quick so he draws
again. Seven. That kind of sucks. And
the baddies are on eight. First of all,
the mummy is going to do the shaken
test. D10 + two to resist. Plus 8 is a
success with a raise, which means it can
immediately move. It is an automaton,
which means it's going to blow past the
two of them. But as it does so, these
two are going to get a free attack on it
as it goes 1 2 3 4 5 6. It's actually
going to technically run. Actually,
before we do this, it does break shake.
It does break shake, baby. But the
question is, does it immediately just
keep moving towards its objective, which
is bringing the bringing the sacrificial
victim back to the altar somewhere, or
does it turn and attack? I think it's
way too intently focused on its its
prey. 43. So, no, it does not. It moves
past the two of them. It's going to run.
Going to go 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. But as
it does so, it draws free attacks from.
Now, as it's moving, they do get their
gang up bonus. I may have forgotten that
before. Each of them should be plus one
fighting. First of all, Edbert at plus
one is going to roll four, which he will
miss. Simon D6 fighting plus his wild
eye. These are both a plus one
potentially for five also missed because
the parry is a six. This statue is going
to attack Simon as well. Uh Ver versus
Perry five. So he will hit Simon. Boom.
So it clocks Simon again for seven. His
toughness is uh six. So he will be
shaken as the thing smashes him in the
side of the head with its big stone
clawed hands and Simon is briefly
knocked in sensate which brings us to
our guys. So Simon first of all he's
going to do his spirit roll to see if he
can get up from this thing. He succeeds
but not with the ray. So he does get up
but he's unable to do anything this
round. So, now the question is, does
Edbert confront the closest uh victim or
does Edbert turn and run after the
mummy? There's no way that he's going to
turn and run. Zero8. He does. So,
he says to Simon, "I'm going to go after
her. You take care of that statue." And
Simon's like, "Well,
get the number of that truck." Uh, okay.
So, he turns 1 2 3 4 5 6. He's going to
have to run and he's going to attack as
a multi-action penalty. 8 7 - 2 is five.
He will not connect. Bang. The ghost
makes its way down the hallway going
after Edward cuz it's connected to him.
So, Simon and company are on king. The
baddies on nine. Simon is fully able to
act. He swings his sword at this thing
trying to smash it. Oh, look at that.
Double exploders. Boom. Boom. And he's
going to roll eights on both cases. He
rolls his damage five against toughness
seven. He will not do anything to that.
Bang. Meanwhile, over here, Edbert
completely misses. The mummy is going to
continue down the hall into the passage.
So, basically, the mummy vanishes off
the board for now. Over here, the
skeleton rolls its fighting. We'll miss
this time. Now, we go back to Simon
on six and four. And he's going to
attack with his fighting of D6. And he's
going to explode. And he's going to roll
a 10. Uh that is a hit with a raise
finally against toughness seven. And
he's going to roll 4 8 12 which is 8 9
10 11. That is enough to smash it. He
finds the weakness, the seam in the
statue and he drives his long sword into
it and kicks it back and it shatters
into pieces. Does Edbert go after the
mummy? He does not. So, he runs back
into the room. What? What was that
thing? That
was my mother. I was right. The evils
that took them took them to this place.
I have to stop her. I have to stop now.
Just hold on. Hold on. You're in no
position to go running after her. But
but she took the hunter. We have to go
after the hunter as well. Just hold on a
minute. That we're going to go after
that mummy of yours and the hunter.
We're going to get that hunter back, but
we are here to explore this place to see
if there's anything of use. So, let's
find out if there is. Yes. Yes, you're
right. Quickly, quickly. Then, they are
both going to search the room. Now,
Simon did do a cursory uh uh
examination. I asked if there was
anything of immediate use that he could
see. The answer was no. But there might
be stuff hidden in these chests, hidden
among these these piles of gems and
jewels and coins, but there's not a lot
of time. So, what they're going to do is
they're going to do a notice roll.
They're going to search the room. Do
they find any other interesting things
in here? They do not. So, there's just
the money. The overall value is going to
be 500. So, we're just going to add that
on. They basically grab the loot, the
gems, the jewelry, the coins, and they
stuff it in their pockets as they're
looking around, but they're unable to
find anything of value. Now, the race is
on to chase down the mummy. They flee
the area and go racing back to the
kitchens. The altar in the main chamber
has already been covered in blood. The
altar in the kitchens has already been
covered in blood. We've established
there's going to be little altars
through pretty much all the rooms.
Presumably, the mummy is going back to
take the the sacrificial victim back to
another room with another altar. And I'm
going to say just because three is a
cool number that once this mummy gets to
the third altar and begins to cut into
the hunter's body again to cover the
altar in blood, it's going to complete
the ritual, which is basically going to
make the outside barrier, a magical
barrier, impenetrable to the order of
the purifying flame. If and when they
ever show up, they run back to the
kitchens. The mummy is not in the
kitchens. The mummy has gone off
somewhere else. What do they find as
they run into the next area? Uh, it is
going to be a five. It's going to be a
common area with a discovery. An acolyte
cell. An acolyte cell. So, they're
running down the corridor. Again, the
dark dank stinking of rot. They come
down a long narrow corridor on either
side or a series of doors. Some of them
are open. They they clearly lead to a
very very small contained acolyte cell.
So like we're talking like one bed, a
simple closet, that kind of thing. Most
of them are totally covered in dust. But
there is a discovery here as they're
racing through it. Two discoveries.
Okay, the first one is nine a feature.
The next one is Oh, look at this alter d
platform. So
this is good. This is good. They run
past the acolyte cells and they can see
in each cell there is a small little
alter. These altars are everywhere. Now,
these are tiny little rooms, so there's
not a lot of room in it. But as they run
past the cells, I think this is one of
the final altars in one of the acolytes
chambers. So, I think that they're going
to they're going to stumble across the
mummy. But before they do, what's the
other discovery? 10. A find. And it's
going to be coins, gems, jewelry. As
they make their way through the hallway,
they can uh notice a couple things. One,
there is obvious uh there's an open
chest in here and there's some money
spilling out, gems, jewel, you know,
coins, that kind of stuff, which is
great. But the other thing is they hear
the sound of screaming from over here as
the mummy here is about to begin the uh
finalization of this ritual, which will
permanently seal this place permanently.
I don't know if it's permanent, but will
certainly make it much much much harder
for the Order of the Purifying Flame to
make their way in and maybe affect a
rescue of our valiant heroes. Here's a
question. Has just the power of this
place by its own nature basically raised
some of these dead priests from their
cells to come to the aid of the mummy.
That is very likely. And chaos vector
725.
Yes. One of them at the door kind of
opens here. One of them emerges there.
Another door opens. shambling out of
this room are, you know, clad in old
rotting black robes as they come out.
So, here's the thing. If the mummy gets
a chance to finish the job, like cut
open uh possibly even kill the hunter,
probably kill the hunter on the altar
here, then the ritual will be complete.
So, it is up to Simon and Edbert to try
and stop the ritual from happening
before that happens. Basically, I'm
going to make a roll every round at the
end of every round to see if the mummy
has completed the ritual. If she rolls
an extraordinary yes on the fate chart,
that means that the hunter has also been
slain. And it's going to get more and
more likely as the rounds go. So,
basically, they have to deal with these
skeletons very soon. Here we go. Simon
and company on king. Baddies also on
king. But in Savage World, we count down
reverse alphabetical. So they go first.
First of all, Simon ah with his drawn
sword, he runs up to one of these thing,
one of these skeletons just emerging
and he attacks it with his sword and
he's going to attack and of course he
misses. Ah, the skeleton comes out and
basically dodges to the side. Simon's
sword smashes into the old door. A puff
of old rotting wood and dust explodes
into the chamber. And meanwhile, Edbert
1 5 6 moves up and attacks this one. Its
ghost comes in as well. Actually, its
ghost is going to go in here, grab some
treasure, and then come over here and
huck it. It can't this round. Meanwhile,
Edbert comes in swinging his sword.
Swinging your sword. Five will hit. 2d8
damage cuz he is much better in a fight.
Bang. Oh, 15 exploding. 15 22. So he
comes up with two hands, brings his
sword down on the skeleton and shatters
it into pieces.
That's more like it. Meanwhile, over
here, the enemy. So this one is going to
move up 1 2 3 4 5 and attack Edbert. Ah,
and it will miss this one coming out of
the room, swings its claws at Simon. It
rolls a d6 fighting. Simon's parry is
five.
God, of course, it explodes with an 11.
Uh, so that is a hit with a raise. 4 6 7
8 that is going to shake him, but not
anything else. Meanwhile, the mummy. So,
the mummy has thrown this semi-conscious
body of this male hunter onto the altar
and has produced some sort of hideous
sickle, right, with necroantic runes all
along the side. It raises up the sickle
and it begins to make a long incision in
the hunter's chest right down the
middle. Is this enough to complete the
ritual? It is impossible that this is
enough, which means that there's a 15%
chance that it is cuz we're at Chaos
Factor 7. Here we go. Does it complete
the ritual?
Oh no. Oh no. And is not an extreme yes.
Oh, this is just awful. It is not an
extreme yes, but it is a yes. Which
means the hunter is still alive. But the
mummy rakes down his chest with the
sickle. His blood
runs all the way down his chest into
those necroantic symbols uh carved into
the into the altar and there is this
sound this deep thrumming sound
a cloud of blackness for just a moment
expands through the chamber and then is
gone again. Oh, bad bad news. The hunter
is still alive but the ritual has been
completed and from outside perhaps are
the purifying flame. Are they there at
the precipice right now? I think it's
very unlikely, but it's possible that
they're uh 94 uh extreme. No. Okay,
they're nowhere near this temple. Okay,
which means Simon and Edbert are
basically stuck in here on their own cuz
there is no help coming for them.
Anyway, the ritual is completed. The
barrier is sealed. Now, does this
barrier mean nobody can get out? I don't
know. We'll have to find out. The hunter
is bleeding out and will eventually die
if they don't do something about it. Our
guys go on a two, but Simon's quick.
Going a six. Bad guys also going a six.
Diamonds uh spades before diamonds in
this case. So the enemies attack first.
This skeleton here is going to attack
Simon as he's still staggered from that
blow and will miss. This skeleton
attacks Edbert and will also miss.
Meanwhile, the mummy does the mummy kill
the um hunter. Does it take its round to
basically perform a cudigra? I don't
really think that's likely. The ritual
is complete. It doesn't need to kill
him. I think uh I think no way. Uh 18.
Sorry, pal.
The mummy takes its sickle knife. The
hunter lying on on the altar, blood
flowing freely from his wounds. He looks
up at the mummy. And the mummy looks
directly at him with its black undead
eyes. And it takes the sickle and draws
it neatly cleanly with one quick swipe
across the hunter's throat. Blood gouts
from the wound and the life quickly
fades from the hunter's eyes.
Hunter's dead. Wow, these dice really
want to screw things up, don't they? Oh
my god, I so can't believe you just
throw that. And now it's our guys on the
six of diamonds. Simon does a spirit
roll to see if he can get back up. He
does not.
Edward slashes at the skeleton in front
of him. He will miss. We go into a new
round now. Simon and company on nine,
enemies on three. Simon and company
first. Simon once again trying to break
his shaken status. Get up, Simon. No,
he's unable to do it. Edbert swings his
sword once again. Misses again. The
poltergeist grabs a thing and comes back
out trying. It's just randomly grabbing
items from the from the treasure to try
and huck at the enemies. We go back to
the enemies. This one on Simon is going
to roll. It's going to miss. This one on
Edward is going to roll. Ooh, six and
nine. Uh, what is Edbert's parry? So,
it's going to hit Edbert and it's going
to do D6 D4. Four will do nothing to
Edbert. That was them. And now,
unfortunately, the mummy, having just
killed the hunter, is going to go 1 2 3
4 5 6. This is going to be totally
random. Uh, 1 to three. It's going after
Simon. It does, and it's going to attack
Simon, but it can't because it rans. It
used its action. So, it basically
shuffles through the hall with its
mummified hands coming after Simon. Now,
mummies have something called mummy rot.
So, at any point if it actually connects
with Simon or Edbert, uh that's
potentially very very bad for them.
Imagine that things are potentially very
very bad for them. You know, one day I
have faith that something's going to go
right for our our belleaguered party.
They just cannot get a break.
Okay. Um new round. Simon and company on
eight. Baddy's on four. Simon and
company first. Simon, you must get up.
You must must get up.
Oh, he cannot he cannot break the shake.
I'm going to spend the Benny to just
come out of shaken. Boom. Just like
that, he's out of shaken, which means he
can act. And he's going to slash
this skeleton right there because he is
also in combat with Edward, which means
that he's going to get a plus one to
hit. D6 uh fighting plus one is going to
be six, which does hit him. Yay. damage
seven against toughness seven. He will
shake. Boom. Finally something done.
Edbert is going to attack that mummy at
a plus one to hit. He will hit with an
eight. Now this is tough. The mummy has
toughness 10. 2d8 against 10. We'll see.
Here we go. Edbert, hit this mummy.
Nope. Nothing done.
Blade cannot penetrate the mummy's
toughness, which is brutal. However,
this thing has I think this thing has
already grabbed something else. Yeah, it
came out and grabbed something else. So,
it's going to hurls it at the mummy. It
will hit the mummy, but probably not do
a whole lot of damage to it. Basically,
these dice have to explode in order for
anything good to happen. Okay. Nine.
Okay. 15. 15. Oh, and 20 damage against
10 is going to be so Oh, awesome. 10
shakes it. 14 uh will destroy. Oh my
god. The poltergeist hurls an item at
the moment. Okay, we need to know what
this item is. Things found in a chest.
Let's see what the killing blow is
caused by. It is caused by
Oh, this is awesome.
Little does Simon or Edward know that
the poltergeist goes in. It does not
grab something from the chest. In fact,
there is a desiccated corpse, one of the
old priests who's lying there. The
corpse has been miraculously preserved,
except, you know, there's still bits of
rotting flesh. The poltergeist rips the
head off of the corpse, moves into the
chamber, and hucks the decaying head at
Simon's mother.
She looks up, the head, hits Simon's
mother's head, and knocks her head off
the body. Bang.
And she goes down.
You know the good thing about this
emulator, you never know what's going to
come. Last round, I certainly hope.
Queen versus four. Simon attacks right
there with a plus one. There we go. 6
and two is 8 + 1 is nine. Parries five.
That's hit with a raise. He does 3d6
damage versus toughness seven. Here we
go. Uh that is uh 8 9 uh 10 11 versus he
smashes that skeleton to P says. Simon
runs into the chamber and alas the
hunter is dead. The second thing he
notices is of course the glowing runes
on the altar glowing with sickening
black light pulsing like a heartbeat. He
goes back and he sees the body of his
mother, her mummified head. And I think
in that moment, the head reverts back to
its human form. The the spell is broken
and the the power that had consumed her
and killed her and raised her again into
this horrible thing now leaves. And for
one second her face just, you know, go
from this richness of of pain and and
and rage for one second just sort of
relaxes into what almost appears as a
peaceful look. Simon, I think, takes a
second and breaks down at this. We have
failed. We have failed to stop this
ritual. I have failed to save my mother.
I need to continue into this place to
see what happened to my father.
>> I don't know if that's such a good idea,
Simon.
This power has been activated. Who knows
what else might now be awakening in this
place. You were right back in the town
to try and gain a priest. There's no way
we can deal with this on ourselves. For
my part, too, I don't think that that
mummy was actually in charge of what was
going on at this place. I think that she
was compelled to do it by some power.
That power is still obviously active
here, and I don't think we have the
strength to defeat it ourselves. We
should take that money in the other room
now and run. I cannot leave this place
until I know what happened to my father.
I have to know if he is here. We're not
going to survive this place. We barely
escaped this if it wasn't for the help
of my unseen friend here. He kind of
twitches again. We got off lucky that
time, mate. We've got to get out now.
Does he convince Simon? I'm going to
give him a D4. Persuade, you know, cuz
hey, I did say that if he survives this,
he's going to become a wild card. So,
I'm going to give him persuade at D4.
He does not. No. If you wish to go, that
is fine. But I must continue. Edbert's a
soldier. Edbert's used to following
orders. But Edbert is also no idiot. He
believes that if they do not leave this
place now, they're going to die here.
And he can see that Simon is obviously
possessed with this burning need to
discover what happened to his father.
Understandable. his mother was turned
into this terrible creature and now
beheaded in front of him. So he he
understands that. But at the same time,
he knows that if they don't leave now,
that's it for them. He's not going to
let Simon go alone. Does Edbert crack
him on the head from behind, knock him
out, and drag him out of this place for
his own good? I think it's somewhat
likely here at Chaos Factor 7. Somewhat
likely he does for his own good. Does
he? He does. Simon turns. No, we must
continue. I must find my father. Roy,
well, lead the way, then. Simon turns.
Edbert takes his sword with the pommel
and cracks him on the back of the head,
knocking him out. Edbert grabs Simon and
moves back down the hall, back to the
kitchen. After first grabbing the loot,
of course, he grabbed the loot. We're
going to figure that out a second cuz
he's not an idiot. back to the temple
itself. And there when he sees the the
doors the door there is still standing a
jar these wide stone thick granite doors
he can see in the fading light of the
afternoon sky that there's a shimmering
barrier between him and the outside
world.
It's almost like translucent. Everything
on the other side of the barrier is just
like these these distorted shapes. And
every now and then like a pulse, a pulse
of black light sort of shimmers down
like rain from the top of the door to
the ground. Does this barrier prevent
anyone from leaving or does it just
prevent someone from coming in? But this
is a big rule because if it prevents
them from leaving, they're not getting
out of this place. At least not by this
exit. I don't think the barrier is too.
I don't think it also prevents you from
leaving. So I'm going to say it's very
unlikely
that it prevents you from leaving. Does
the barrier prevent them from leaving?
60 on 50. No, it does not. Edbert takes
Simon's unconscious body, moves through
the shimmering barrier to the outside
world, escaping the temple. Well, we
dealt with the undead master, which
turned out to be uh uh Simon's mother,
who is now destroyed, and the order of
the flame is far away. The the dying
hunter is now dead. are threads the only
thing find out about parents. Well, that
thread has been partly answered. We know
that Simon's mother was taken and turned
into uh an undead automaton, but we
don't know what happened to the father.
So, we're going to change that thread.
Search for Simon's father and then in
brackets in the temple cuz he thinks
that's where he is. The chaos factor.
I'm going to bump it up to eight.
Um money. They did find some money in
the acolyte cell. So, let's just find
out what that is. is probably not going
to be a lot. So, there is a chance.
Oh, look at this. There is a magic item.
Oo,
let's see what it is. It is a nine. A
crossbow. The damage bonus is one. So,
it has a simple edge to it as well. This
crossbow, steady hands. So, as Edbert is
dragging uh Simon out, he grabs a bunch
of stuff from the acolyte cells. It
turns out there's 200 gold worth of
stuff. And also this crossbow. really
good-looking crossbow, but you can tell
that it's really really wellm made.
Maybe Edward's going to present the
crossbow as as a mayaculpa from knocking
him on the head and and uh having him
escape this place. I think this thing
should have a name. We don't know if
we're going to discover the name right
now, but it should have a name. What's a
cool name? Actually, I'm going to put it
out to you guys. What's a cool name for
this crossbow? What's a cool name for
this crossbow? It does more damage a
little bit, but it also gives you steady
hands so that you are you can fire on
the move or you can fire from an
unstable platform. What is the name of
this crossbow? I'm going to put that out
there for you guys. Uh if you have any
ideas, put them in the comments below.
And uh if I like one of them, I'll uh
put it in the show. So, that brings us
to the end of this scene and the end of
episode 7. Simon is still alive,
although he's been cracked on the head.
He's not going to be very happy with
Edbert when uh when he wakes up to
discover that that he's been pulled out
of the temple before he could discover
what happened to his father. He's going
to be very very well, we're going to see
what happens in the next episode between
him and Edward. Presumably, Ed Hedbert's
going to take him back to town to
Hundtorra to regroup and possibly go and
find another member of the priesthood
who could help them. Maybe they're going
to wind up meeting the Order of the
Purifying Flame. There is a chance that
those guys, girls, people, whoever they
are, I even know if they're humans. I
don't know nothing about them, but we
might meet them in the next episode. I
have no idea, but you might. If you tune
in next time to me, myself, and die.
Don't forget if you like this episode
and all the episodes, hit like and
subscribe down in the in the below part.
Down in the below part. And we will see
you next time for the continuing
adventures of Saki Simon.
Hello again and welcome back to Me,
Myself, and I. I am your intrepid host,
game master, and player, Trevor Deval.
As always, remember to hit like and
subscribe and uh share on Facebooks and
and all the various uh social medias
because it really helps get the show out
there. First of all, I want to uh thank
you all for your suggestions for the
name of the crossbow, the magic crossbow
that was found last episode. There was
some really, really killer ones out
there. I love them all and I was so
excited to see all of you taking part in
that. That was it just warms the cockle
to my heart to see that. But
nonetheless, we did have to pick one and
so the one we're going with is in fact
Stonebolt. Stonebolt the crossbow. So,
thanks Kith for that one. Couple little
housekeeping things before we begin this
episode, this very special episode, this
Halloween episode. Couple
things. Simon has leveled up. He has
basically got himself a new edge, which
is fleetooted, which means that now his
basic pace is eight instead of six. And
he rolls a d10 running die instead of a
d6. So that's going to make him a lot
faster. And it's also going to give him
a chance to get get the heck out of a
fight if he has to because now he has a
much more valuable and reliable wildcard
ally. That's right, Edbert. Edbert has
been graduated to wild card status. I
said that if he survived last time, he
would be. And so, in fact, he is. So,
I've gone and made him a full character
now, a full wild card. Basically, he's
got, you know, the skills and and and
edges and stuff just like a wild card.
But most importantly of all, most
importantly of all, he now rolls a wild
die with everything he does, which is
pretty cool. That should make things a
lot easier for poor Simon who was
knocked on the head at the end of last
session as Edbert was dragging him out
of the temple where they discovered that
his mother was an undead creature, an
automaton, a mummy of sorts if you will,
that was tasked with completing a ritual
that would seal off the temple from the
outside. The ritual was completed and
the mummy was destroyed. So Simon's
undead mother was killed, if you will,
by none other than Edward's ghost, which
managed to rip off a mummified head from
a dead priest and hurl at the mummy,
knocking its head off. It was pretty
cool. But then Simon, totally
devastated, who he thought that his
father might still be in the temple
somewhere. And he wanted to go explore.
But Edbert, being an experienced
soldier, knew that there was no way just
the two of them could do this. They were
going to die if they kept going. So he
cracked Simon on the back of the head
after failing to persuade him and drag
him drug dragged dragged him out of the
temple just as the uh the the ritual had
gone up and the temple itself was sealed
from the outside. So they were able to
leave but they might not be able to get
back in. So in the meantime they are
currently on their way back to the town
of Hundra. Now couple things. One, chaos
factors at 8. So I'm going to roll to
see if anything is interrupted uh or
altered in the scene. Chances are it
will be. two because this is Halloween.
This is our special Halloween episode. I
mean, it might be. I'm I'm assuming it's
a special Halloween episode. You never
know what the knights are going to say.
But seeing as this is supposedly our
Halloween episode, I want to start off
first of all by finding out some more
information about this ghost of Edberts.
Considering that this ghost was
instrumental in saving their bacon last
time, I think it's important to
understand now the nature of Edbert's
haunting. So, in order to do that, we
are going to go to our handy dandy UN
NPC emulator. We take our percentile
rolls here and we do our roll and we get
a 92 which means despondent. Okay.
Despondent. Oh, come on. See why my
silly little props here to make it
spooky.
Despondent. What? Despondent
42.
Oh, magis. So despondent wizard
basically. Now we find the power level.
So slightly stronger than than Edbert
is. We know one motivations uh of this
ghost already which is keep Edbert alive
so he can atone. But what else? What
else do we know about this motivation?
So this motivation is 97.
Rob
10 distress. I I feel like this this
goes motivation perhaps in life to take
away distress. So to calm down to
provide uh healing perhaps to provide
calmness
distress that that I I need a little
more to go on. So another motivation
we've got 45 damage
damage 100 damage spirits.
Oh, you know what? Damage spirits makes
me think that this mage was in fact
some kind of necromancer. someone who
specialized in destroying undead. That
makes sense considering it actually just
wound up doing that. So yeah. So I think
in this case to to rob distress to take
away distress is to put the dead to
rest. So this is definitely some kind of
necromancer or maybe like an
anti-necromancer. Oh, you know what? I
wonder if the magic user was actually
part of this order of the purifying
flame. Let's ask the fate chart. I'm
going to say 50/50 cuz I don't know.
Extreme yes. So extreme yes was the
wizard part of the order. The wizard was
the leader of the order. Obviously this
ghost had real reason to go in that
temple and destroy all those undead. And
the ghost would also have real reason to
bring down that barrier because the
ghost may know that the order of the
purifying flame is on the way to destroy
this temple. A task will find infinitely
more hard now because the barrier is up.
Was this male or female? One to three
male. There we go. Five female. So yes,
the ghost is female. And we're going to
go to female names. There are three
tables. The ghost's name this wizard
deaths who was the leader of the order
of the purifying flame. The name was 37.
Cherylyn. Great. I think uh she would
have had a title if she was the leader
of this order of the purifying flame.
Something like Cherylyn the Cherylyn
spirit bane or something like that.
Let's call that Cherylyn spirit bane.
Now what I want to know is what is the
nature of the haunting of Edward? How
did Edbert come across? Well,
if this ghost is haunting Edward, it's a
pretty good chance that Edbert killed
her, right? It's a near thing on Chaos
Factor 8. Uh 66 is in fact, uh yes. So,
Edbert did kill her. Was it a mistake or
did he do it on purpose? I have no idea.
50/50. Was it a a wrongful death? The
answer is yes. So, he didn't go out of
his way to to murder her or anything
like that. And I don't think he he
didn't meet her in battle and sue or
anything like that. something happened
in which Edbert wound up killing this
woman. Well, obviously he has some
connection to the order of the purifying
flame. Was Edbert a member of that? I
don't think that's likely. I don't think
it's likely. It's possible he may have
been working for them at some point, but
let's ask the fate chart. Was Edbert in
fact a member of purifying flame?
Purifying flame. The purifying flame.
I'm going to say no way. Uh KS factor 8
75. No, he was not a member. Was he
employed by I think that's very likely.
Yeah, I think it's very likely that he
was 47. He was So, he was employed by
Cherylyn Spirit Bane to go and do some
task. He did kill her accidentally and
she is haunting him because of that. So,
she's keeping him alive until he can
atone for the accidental death of her of
herself. Actually, here's an interesting
question. Does the Order of the
Purifying Flame know that Edbert was
responsible for the death of their
leader?
50/50.
What is that? 07 is an extreme yes.
Not only does the Order of the Purifying
Flame know that Edbert was responsible,
they blame him and they are after him.
That certainly complicates things. If
they run into the order, that's going to
be a problem.
What a twisted web we do spin here on me
myself and die. Yeah, I think that's all
we need to know for now. So, because
this is a Halloween episode, we are
going to go to mythic variations right
here. What mythic variations does is
basically give us different types of
random encounter tables based on the
genre. So, we're going to go to mythic
variations horror
horror. A couple of special rules
variations when it comes to horror in
mythic variations. First of all, the
chaos factor, if you're starting, would
normally be at four, but ours is already
at 8. And then we have a different
horror focus table right here, which,
you know, will come up in a second.
Also, because our chaos fac our chaos
factor is so high, it's eight. If we do
roll under it, they're all going to be
interrupt scenes. There's not going to
be altered scenes. That's just a factor
of the uh mythic horror theme. Let's do
that. As Simon is unconscious and being
dragged by Edward through the forest, it
is late afternoon, early evening.
They've been traveling now for some
time, having just escaped the temple.
They are making their way back to
Huntorra. Hopefully, they're going to
get there without incident. However,
this is me, myself, and I, and using the
mythic emulator with a chaos factor of
eight. I highly doubt it. So, let us
determine whether or not the scene is
interrupted. Is it interrupted? Yeah,
seven on chaos factor 8 means yes. What
is the focus? So, if we look over here,
we have this horror focus table. Okay,
it's slightly different than the normal
um table that uh that Mythic has. So,
we're going to see what we have here.
Okay, on the horror focus tape, we are
rolling. What is the interrupt scene?
What is the focus of this event? 27.
Remote event. So, this is an event that
happens somewhere else. And what is it
about? The action is 17. Antagonize
84.
Status quo. antagonize the status quo.
They're on the way to town, so they're
going to have an interrupt scene, but
it's a remote event, so it doesn't
directly affect them. Something has
happened in the town of Hundraura to
shake things up. So, is it possible that
they were attacked? Antagonize the
status quo. I don't think that they were
attack. I think that this really is more
about uh this is more an internal
incursion. This is some group on the
inside of the town that has basically
risen up and like overthrown the
government. Oh, well, okay. This is a
this is a horror episode after all. So I
think there is some cult some cult
perhaps even associated with the
necromancers in the old temple. Perhaps
there is a cult that has been long
hiding in the underbelly of society and
they have seen their opportunity and
seized it. They've risen up and they
have murdered some of the most
influential people in the town. They've
killed off several key members of the
town and basically the town is in chaos.
How do Edbert and Simon find out about
this? Now, I think what they come across
is they come across a rider who's who's
galloping as fast as he can, but maybe
he's been wounded. He's got like a
couple of arrows in his back. He's
clinging to life. He basically rides up
to them. He's just on his last legs.
Edbert sees him and basically, you know,
flags him down. The horse is lathering.
The horse rains up in front of him, but
he wounded as he is this rider. Uh, he
falls off right in front of Edward. The
the the man is on the ground. He's he's
like there's blood like flecking his
lip, you know, from from the many wounds
that he's taken. He's he's he's almost
delirious from the pain. Edward comes up
to him. He slumps Simon down like a sack
of potatoes on the uh on the ground.
What happened, man? Are you coming from
town? Are you coming from Torah?
There was terrible uprisings in the
street. I a cult. Some terrible cult.
They began murdering murdering the
priests and murdering the town masters.
I I was on my way to the city to tell
the lords there, but they shot me. Is
the guy about to die? I don't know.
Let's find out. He's been shot. I'm
going to say it's somewhat likely. Is he
about to die? These wounds. 10 extreme.
Yes. So, he is he's there's there's
nothing that Edbert can do for him.
disguise. Uh uh please sir, you must get
word to the city. I never did know the
name of the city. I'm going to presume
that the city he's talking about is the
one to the north. The one that uh Simon
comes from. We're going to random tables
two here. What is the name of the city
that Simon is from? 44. Kitan. The city
of Kitan. I like that. I Please, I have
to get word to Kitan city. I have to get
word that we need help dealing with this
cult. Hang on. I'll see if I can help
you. Simon, Simon, get up. We need your
help. But by the time he turns back to
Simon, this writer is dead. He succumbed
to his wounds. So, Simon Groggy, uh, I
think he comes to his his senses now.
Uh, what? Why is my head so sore? Uh,
we're out of the temple now. Simon,
what? But we have to go back in and find
my father. You were raving, man. You
were about to do something really stupid
that to drag me witches. So I got us out
of there. Just as you turned, I think
something fell on your head.
Edbert, you have taken me away from the
one trail that could lead me to answers.
How could you do that? I told you
before, Simon. If we didn't get out of
there, we were dead. I had to do it. You
were out of your mind. You just lost
your mother twice over. You'll thank me
for this later. Or maybe not now. We'll
see about that, Edward. We shall see.
Wait, who who is that? He points to the
dead rider on the ground. Some rider out
of Hundor. He said he was on his way to
Kitan. Kitan? Why? Apparently, there's
some cult that's risen up from the
underbelly of the town and murdered a
bunch of influential people. Place is in
chaos. I was hoping we might be able to
find someone in town to help us with the
the rest of the exploration of the
temple, but uh I don't know if it's a
good idea for us to go back.
>> Well, one thing's for sure. We can't go
back to Kitan.
>> Well, why not?
I would rather not return there. I am
hunted, Edbert. Hunted by an enemy of
mine, Manfred of Dovedane.
No, I cannot return there. We can't just
walk into Hundra. From what this poor
chap was saying, it's a mad house. Well,
what do you suggest we do then, Edward?
This guy was going to Kiten to try and
tell them what's going on. Maybe get
some help. We could do that. We could
search his body, see if he got any sort
of official writ on him. Maybe he had
some official request for help or
something from the town masters. Did he?
I don't know. Find out. I think it's
very likely that he does have something
like that. 78. Yes, he does. Edbert
quickly searches his his belt pouch and
he comes out with this rolled up piece
of um parchment that has a seal on the
seal of Hundra. See right here?
We could do this man's job for him. We
could go back to Kitan City and get
help. Did he tell you any details about
what's going on there? He made it sound
like everything was total chaos there.
What do they do? Do they go onto Hundra
knowing that it is suddenly very
dangerous because this strange cult that
suddenly come up out of nowhere? Or do
they take the missive from the town
masters and go back to the city of Kitan
to try and get some help? Simon
definitely does not want to go back to
Kitan. It's too dangerous for him. He
already knows that Arn the bounty hunter
is is after him. He knows that Manfred
is out to to get him. So going back to
the Lion's Den is probably not a very
good idea. But does Edbert care about
Hundtorra? Does he have any vested
interest in helping Huntorra? Does
Edward have a vested interest in helping
Hundora 21? Yes, he does. Simon, I think
we should help. I think we should carry
this to the city leaders, of whom
Manford of Dovedane certainly is one.
And um see if we can bring help. I do
not like this one bit, Edbert. And
another thing, we do not even know what
the nature of this uprising is. This one
man told us there's a cult in the
streets, that people have been killed.
If we're going to go and ask for help,
don't you think that we need to get some
more information? It'll be in dismissive
everything we need to know. He breaks
the seal, opens the missive, and reads
it. I don't think there's a huge chance
that there's a lot of like really
explicit details about what's happening.
I think it's basically we're under
attack, crazy people in the streets.
Send help. So, is there enough detail in
the missive to explain a lot about
what's happening in Hunda Torah? I don't
think so. I think no way. No way. Is
there 56? The answer is no. The missive
is super hastily written. A scrolled
hand like the letters trailing off onto
one side kind of thing. Send help quick.
So Simon has a look at this. You see
this tells us nothing. I can tell you
this. The first thing that the masters
of Kitan will want to know is what's
happening. This missive tells them
nothing. If you want to help the folk of
Hundora, we need to know what's going
on. We need to go into that town and
find out for ourselves. All right, fine,
Simon. We'll do it your way since you
are sort of the principal main character
here after all and I'm just sort of a
jumped up NPC. So yes, we'll do it your
way. So they make their way back south
to the town of Hundra as night is
falling. They will get there after dark.
There's a full moon. Actually, let's
find out what the weather's doing. The
higher the roll, the better it is. Oh,
five. As they make their way towards the
town of Unurra, there is a storm that
begins to boil on the horizon. Lightning
flashes in the clouds over the ocean off
to their right. Thunder begins to roll
in off the sea towards the land. And
there in front of them as they come down
out of the mountains and out of the
foothills, they can see the town of
Hondura right where they left it. But
this time, I think there are a number of
fires in the town. I think that these
cultists have been busy. I think they're
sewing the seeds of chaos everywhere
they are going. I'm going to say it's
likely
60. Yes, it is. So, as they make their
way down to the walled town of Hudora,
they can see the flames erupting against
the night sky. They can hear the sound
of screaming and and and and there's
fighting in the streets. There's all
kinds of chaos going on down there. As
they get to the gate, is is the gate
closed? I think it's very unlikely. Is
the gate closed? Uh,
in this case, yes, the gate is closed.
So, they get there. I think the guards
at the gate are way too busy dealing
with the chaos being sewn by the cult on
the inside. The guards are clearly
trying to quell whatever rioting is
going on. Uh it's it's a bad scene in
there. Simon and Edbert come up to the
gate. You know, Simon pounds on the
gate. Let us in. Let us in. Bang. Bang.
Bang. Bang. Is there any guards
stationed at the gate that that have
actually kept their posts? I think no
way. There's no way that there have
been. 24. The answer is yes. There is a
guard. The guard looks over the wall and
sees them. Honda is in flames. Traveler.
You should go. It's too dangerous to
open the gate. Now, we can help. Let us
in. Actually, let's find out exactly
what the uh uh initial initial reaction
is of the guard. Okay, so we're going to
use the old uh Savage Worlds reaction
table here. The initial reaction for the
guard is going to be seven, which is
neutral. Okay, so he's neutral. He's not
really He clearly doesn't want to open
the gate because there's all this chaos
going on behind him. Simon's shouting,
"Let us in, man. Let us in." The guard
shouts down, "The gate is closed,
traveler. I cannot do it." I think
Edbert step step up and he he's got
intimidation so he's going to use
intimidation. It's one of the skills he
has as a wild card. He he he shouts up
to the gate. Now listen, we are here to
help you. Do you understand? Help. Now
don't be a stupid ass. Open this gate
now or I will scale that wall and use
your head to bash this gate open myself.
Let's see if it works. He is a wild
card. So he's rolling it. He's got a d6
intimidate and he's got a d6 for his
wild card. And he's going to roll a four
which is a success. So the guard kind of
looks, gulps, and or he scampers down
the wooden rickety stairs on the other
side and and opens the he doesn't open
like the main gate, but he basically
opens the man gate right beside it. So
the single door opens and Simon and
Edbert steal inside and right away they
can see that the bustling peaceful town
of Hundora is in chaos. There are shops
on fire. There are people criss-crossing
the roads, running back and forth.
There's a sound of screaming. There's a
sound of crying children. There's a
sound of wailing women. There's a sound
of combat. You know, obviously some
people are fighting these cultists. It's
total chaos. Simon says to the guard,
"Where is the fighting most heavily
concentrated? Where did where did these
cultists come from?" I don't think this
guard has any idea about like what's
going on. I think maybe he was I think
he was on duty and chaos erupted and
that's that. So I I think it's very
unlikely this guard does this guard know
anything about where these cultists came
from? The answer is 89. He does not. He
kind of shrugs at Simon says, "I don't
know. I have no idea. I was just on on
duty in in about an hour ago this
started up. But I know that they they
attack the Lord Mayor's house, right?
They make their way through the streets
going towards the large manor house in
the center of the town. It would be it
would have a small sort of retaining
wall around it. It's set on a a simple
hill in the center of the town that
commands a nice view not only of the
harbor but of the the surrounding
countryside as well. They make their way
through the streets of Hundora trying
not to engage any of these strange
cultists. Do they engage? Do they come
across any cultists that might attack
them? Well, uh it's it's I'd say it's
somewhat likely. I mean, it's uh pretty
crazy right now. 99 is actually an
extreme no. So, they do not see any
cultist. What they do see is the product
of the cultist work. So, they see a lot
of dead towns folk. They see a lot of
like, as I said, burning shops, carts
overturned, screaming horses attached to
burning carts as they trample through
the streets, but they don't see any
cultists themselves. So, they make their
way all the way to the manor house in
the center of town. I think I need to
know something about this cult. Now,
what is this cult all about? I suggested
that perhaps it is connected to the
necromancers in the temple, but I don't
know if that's the case. It might not
be. It might be something totally
different. This might be a political
thing. This who can say this cult is all
about 22 befriend
93
befriend weather. I think that these
guys are are are like basically they
worship the storm itself and they're
calling upon the storm. I think that
maybe they are worshiping some dark
aspect of Morgus the sea god or even
better they are worshiping Morgus'
opposite in the pantheon. So if Morgus
is the god of of sailors and the god of
weather, I think that these cultists are
worshiping a god or goddess that
represents the destructive force of
nature. That's kind of cool actually. It
is a female. It is a goddess. The
goddess of the storm, the destructive
power of the sea. And I think these
cultists have been secretly worshiping
this goddess, hoping to bring her wrath
upon this town and and specifically upon
the harbor and the ships and the temple
of Morgus as well because Morgus and
this goddess are are are diametric
opposites. They're they're enemies. So
what is the name of this goddess?
Something cool. Deona. Ah, that's kind
of cool actually. The Sailor Scourge.
Simon and Edbert appear on the very
steps of the town master's hall. I think
what they see there is the guards. The
guards in front have been slain. Did the
cultists actually originate their attack
from the town master? Did they like dig
their way through basically from some
sea cave on the outskirts of town?
That's kind of cool actually. Yeah,
let's call that somewhat likely. Did
they do that? In fact, 98 they did not.
Um, so they didn't do that. So this is
in fact not then the center of where
they came, but this is certainly a place
where they struck. Is there anybody left
alive inside? I'm going to say it's very
unlikely that there's anybody left alive
inside. 66 is a no. And it is also under
our chaos factor, which means we have an
interrupt scene. So, everybody in that
whole town master's manor are dead.
They've been slain. Servants,
the town masters themselves, their
families. It's a brutal, brutal, brutal
slaughter house. However, we have an
interrupt scene as Simon and Edbert are
approaching. Now, the interrupt scene on
the horror chart. Focus
[Music]
horror NPC. Oo,
this is a special focus event on the
horror chart. So, this means something
horrific happens to one of our NPCs. So,
we have seven possibilities here out of
all the characters. So, I'm going to
roll a d8, a six. Oh, interesting. They
steal their way into this manor house.
Dead bodies are everywhere. These people
have been butchered. It is a charal
house. It It is is a gore. Charal.
Carnal. Carl. I always said carnal, but
I think it's charal. I've got every
dummy. The sections of the yard are on
fire as they kind of go and they they
make their way through the burning yard
and they get to that the double doors
that are swinging open in the in the
breeze. It's the night breeze that's
blowing in off the sea, whipping up the
fires in other parts of the town. Still
the sounds of chaos behind them. But
inside the house, total silence. They go
inside. They step inside sort of the
main foyer area, the main entrance
chamber. Large chamber with a a double
sort of colonated staircase going up to
a massive landing in front of them.
Exits off to the right and left. There
they can see some of the serving staff
slumped over uh seties and chairs and
things, their throats cut, blood
everywhere. It's just a scene of total
well horror.
What is the nature of the horror? The
nature of the horror is 67.
Open
65. Open intrigues. Oh, that's it. They
slowly make their way up these the the
two staircases to the balcony
overlooking the foyer. And behind them,
they can see another chamber that's
going off. And they can see as soon as
they get up to that top level, their
feet start splashing on water. And they
look down and they see that there's like
a river of water, like a like a giant
puddle that seems to be flowing from the
corridor behind them on the second
level. It's flowing out of one
particular room and it's flowing out and
over the uh the overhang dripping
dripping drip drip drip down into the
foyer entrance. It may be dripping down
onto the head of a of a dead servant as
the water hits the servant's head,
mixing with his blood and running down
his face.
They turn down the hallway
and they slowly make their way down the
hallway, weapons drawn, of course.
Actually, at this point, Edward kind of
pulls out the crossbow stonebolt
and presses it into Simon's hand. Simon,
what is this? I found this in the
temple. I think you might uh find some
use out of it. All right. He loads it up
with a bolt. He doesn't have a lot of
bolts right now. He hasn't had a chance
to buy them, but we'll say he's got a
couple. He's got a handful. So, loaded
crossbow. He begins to move down the
corridor. And as they come around the
corner of where the water is coming,
they look and there's like a large like
a large bathroom and there's a large
stone bath and in the bath the water is
sloshing out over and there they can see
an arm draped over the side. And they
come up and again water is spilling over
and you know pouring down the hallway.
And they go up and they look inside and
the arm attached to a body and the body
underneath the water drowned bloated
with water and they can see there is
North the friendly merchant because
that's who I rolled on the uh target of
the NPC horror. North the friendly
merchant bloated his carcass lying
there. blood pooling in the water. All
of his internal organs are sort of have
been exposed by a large cut and it's
it's this horrifying thing. And Simon
looks and he kind of has to look away
immediately. North has been butchered.
He's been sacrificed to Deona.
Why is he here? Maybe he had some
business with the the town masters when
the attack happened. That's probably the
case. Now, they have sacrificed him and
several other u members, influential
members of the town to their dark
goddess. Here's a question. Did they
sacrifice these influential members of
town to maybe summon this storm that's
even now rolling off the sea? And if
that's the case, which I think it is, is
the sacrifice of North sort of like a a
pivotal moment in the sacrifice to bring
the storm crashing down on the town? I'm
going to say it's somewhat likely that
it is somewhat likely. The answer is 01.
Extreme yes. Oh, extreme yes. So,
unfortunately, Simon and Edward have got
here too late as they look and they see
the body of North floating, his chest
cut open and like like barn doors
exposing all of the uh uh internal
organs even now becoming choked and
bloated. And they sort of look at each
other and at that moment from outside
there is a massive crash of of thunder
and the flash of lightning and they kind
of look out a window that looks as I
said the the manor house has a
commanding view of the town as well as
the harbor and as they look out the
window they can see the harbor and there
approaching in the darkness. They hear
it first. They hear the rumble
and as they turn and they look and they
strain their eyes in the darkness to try
and see over the burning town, they can
see it is a huge wave that is coming to
engulf the town or is it containing
monstrosities that are going to burst
out of the town very HP Lovecraft style?
The the creatures from underneath the
sea coming to attack. Is it that is it
just a regular title wave? I think it's
unlikely it's just a tidal wave. Is it a
tidal wave? The answer is 22. Ah, so we
have once again we have uh an event that
interrupts this scene. The answer is
yes. It is a massive tidal wave. Oh,
Simon. Simon looks at Edward. We've got
to get out of here. I think you're
right. As this wave comes crashing in,
but before it does, there is an
interrupt event. What is the nature of
it? We go back to our horror focus table
and we roll 88 which is doubles but that
doesn't count for the purpose of this
which is NPC negative.
So something bad happens to another NPC.
Let's find out who that NPC is. We're
going to roll our d6 to see which NPC it
is. Three one two.
Okay. NPC negative. Something bad
happens to this person that I just
rolled. What is the nature of that thing
that happens as this ginormous tidal
wave is coming crashing in over the town
potentially about to wipe it out? What
is the nature of the bad thing that
happens? Divide
allies.
NPC negative. Divide allies. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, what happens
is Simon and Edward are standing in the
window of this bathroom on the second
floor of this manor house looking out.
They see this massive tidal wave coming
in. They look to each other. We got to
get out of here, you know. Yeah, I think
you're right. But at that moment, Simon
looks down and he sees the inn. The inn
at the edge of the water and people are
streaming out of it. But he also sees
cultist coming in. Cultist beginning to
set fire to it. There's several staff of
the inn that are fighting off. These
cultists are trying to they're getting
killed. These cultists, I think, are in
some like some dark blue robes. They've
got these long knives and they're, you
know, it's just it's just butchery. But
coming out of that inn, he can see
Arn the bounty hunter. But as he does
so, divide allies. Edward points down to
him. I know that man. I I met him in in
the end the other night. Yes, I know
that man, too, Edward. And I say we let
him drown. We need to get out of here.
No, no, that man. I think that man could
be a great help to us. In fact, I was
thinking about coming back and trying to
find him. Actually, I think he could be
just the the person we need to get in
that temple again. What? Art is a bounty
hunter. He knows nothing at all about
the magical barriers or necroantic
temples. Believe me, Simon, he said a
few things to me in the common room that
makes me think that he might in fact be
the man to do this stuff. At this
moment, the tidal wave of is coming
closer and closer. It's getting louder
and louder. Simon says, "There's no time
for this man. We have to get out of
here. I didn't come all this way just to
have our best shaken back at that temple
be washed away the sea. Now I'm going
after him." and he leaps out the window,
his invisible ghost following him, and
leaps onto the roof slates and skids
down into the courtyard, tumbling down
through the streets towards Arin to
rescue him. Simon's like, "Ad,
what are you doing?" As this tidal wave
is getting closer and closer and closer,
and Simon knows that he has just a
handful of moments to decide what to do.
Does he go after Edward to try and help
him rescue Arn, his nemesis? Or does he
turn tail and flee knowing that this
gigantic tidal wave is bearing down on
the town about to destroy it? What does
he do? I wish I could tell you, but that
will be the subject of the next episode
of our show. So, if you like the show,
don't forget to hit like and subscribe,
and come on back next time when we find
out what happens to Simon of Agugustan
and whether or not he gets washed away
like the rest of the town of Unura.
We'll see you next time on Me, Myself,
and Die.
Hello again and welcome back to Me,
Myself, and Die. I am, as ever, your
intrepid host, GM, and player Trevor
Deval. Uh, thanks so much for tuning in,
and remember, if you like the show, uh,
please hit like and subscribe because it
really helps the show here. Also, I
should point out that we now have
merchandise, which is crazy to me. But
enough of you had asked me about how to
get merchandise like the logo or you
#Simon sucks. So, we're putting it on
t-shirts now and mugs and all that kind
of stuff. So, you'll be able to check
out all that stuff in the show notes.
So, by all means, if you want to help
support the show, that's a great way to
do it and to have a a kooky little
souvenir as well of uh my ridiculous
little experiment here, but I do
appreciate you guys showing an interest.
It's pretty great. So, where last we
left off, after having discovered that
the town had been completely overrun by
these cultists of Deona, the goddess of
the sea, who is the opposite to the
priesthood of Morgus, which has a temple
right here. These cultists who had
committed a ritual, all kinds of rituals
going on, by killing uh North, the
friendly merchant in the town's master's
house. And that ritual had caused this
massive tidal wave to come, presumably
to come and to swallow the town. The
title wave is on its way right now.
Simon wants to get out of dodge, of
course, and so did Edbert. But at that
moment, Edbert looked and saw that
outside of the inn was Arn, the bounty
hunter, who was engaged with a bunch of
cultists. People were screaming, running
around, everything like this. He went to
help him because Edward believes that
Arin has some knowledge that's going to
help them get past the barrier, which is
sealed the temple. What that knowledge
is, I have no idea. Hopefully, Arin
survives this so we can find out what
that is and why he of all people has
some special knowledge. So, where uh we
last left off, Simon was in the town's
master house watching Edbert skid down
the tiles of the roof and run off to
help Arn. Edbert's the closest thing to
a friend that Simon has. So, of course,
he's not going to let him get washed
away by the water. So, Simon is still in
the town's master's house. He's he's
looking out over the town. There's fires
erupting everywhere. In the far
distance, he can see the massive black
shadow of this gargantuan tidal wave
that is slowly picking up speed and
moving, crashing its way wave over wave
towards the shore to engulf the town. He
doesn't have a lot of time left, but he
races down outside of the town's
master's house and goes after Edward to
try and help him. So, does anything
interrupt or alter that scene? There's a
very good chance it does because the
chaos factor is eight. So, here on KS
Factor 8, I'm rolling and I get a three.
It is an altered scene. What's the next
logical outcome for this? Well, I think
that as Simon is racing towards Edbert
through the town, I think that uh the
most logical thing is that he encounters
an obstacle. Is it a cultist? Perhaps. I
think it's going to be more of a
environmental obstacle though. I think
it's going to be something like a a beam
of a burning masonry comes falling down
from a burning house or something and
he's got to deal with that. So, yeah,
let's go with that. So, he's racing to
the streets. the night sky being lit up
by the the the encroaching fires of the
town. Smoke everywhere, screaming people
everywhere, you know, dead horses,
overturned carts. It's just total
carnage and chaos. He is running, racing
through the streets when he turns up and
he sees this massive beam of fire from a
collapsing building arcing down towards
him. He's got to get out of the way. So,
I think that this challenge is going to
be basically like a dodge. He's got to
roll his agility, which is good cuz he's
pretty good at this. Does he succeed? He
does succeed. And so he is able to leap
out of the way. He doesn't succeed with
a raise, but that's okay in this case.
The building beside him collapses into
flame. Embers go flying up in the sky.
Uh choking uh smoke billows out, but he
is able to bypass that and get to the
the the town square in front of the inn.
We've got the sailor's mess right here
in the town. We've got a couple of other
buildings here. Uh this is Simon now.
I've decided to give him a crossbow
instead. He's he's a different menu for
now. Over here we have Edbert who is
currently locked in combat with uh a
cultist because he's been here for a
while now. His spirit ghost is here. His
Cherylyn who who again does have a
vested interest in keeping him alive. So
she might actually be part of this fight
again. And over here we have Arn who is
hiding behind this large fountain. Uh
basically firing at these other cultists
coming up. So we've got 1 2 3 four
cultists right here. Arn is right there.
Edbert's here. And Simon emerges on the
scene right here. So let us go directly
to initiatives. Okay. So we are going to
remember now that Simon is a wild card.
Edward is a wild card and AR was a wild
card if you remember way back from
episode 2. And then all of the enemies
are just extras. Okay. So I'm going to
have Simon go on his own because he's
got the quick edge. And then I'm going
to have another card which is going to
be for Edward and AR and then another
card which is going to be for the
baddies for the the Deon cultists. Okay.
Actually there's something I want to
know before I get into initiative. Are
these all just regular cultists or do
they have a leader with them? I don't
know. Let's find out. So, here we go.
Chaos Factor 8 Extreme. Yes. So, this
guy right here is some kind of priest.
Deon is a goddess. Maybe the priests of
Deona are are all uh female. Uh yeah,
that's that's that's the chart. Um are
all of the the priesthood of Deona, are
they all female? Kind of like the D
elves from D and D. For those of you
familiar with that, the answer is yes,
they are. So this nonetheless is the
priestess. Okay. Goo. All right. So here
we go. Simon is going to be on three.
Not. But he's quick. Queen. Okay. Both
Arn and Edbert are on 10. And the
cultists are also on 10, but spades go
before clubs. Great. This that worked
out well for a change. Hooray. Maybe
Simon doesn't suck so bad this time. We
will see. What we've got here is Simon
goes first. He's got his handy dandy
crossbow. And it was loaded. It was
loaded the last time uh the at the end
of last episode. What he's seeing right
here is uh uh Edbert locked in combat.
So he doesn't want to fire into that
combat cuz if he does, he might actually
hit Edbert. He sees AR preparing to pull
back and fire at this approaching
priestess who's dressed in these dark
blue robes. All of these cultists are in
dark blue robes. They have basic weapons
like cudgles, short swords, nothing
fancy. They all basically do D6 damage.
So who does he fire at? Well, he does
actually have a clear shot at uh the
priestess and he's got a clear shot at
the closer cultist here, but it just
makes sense that he would fire at the
closest threat. So, I'm going to roll a
d6 and one to four. He chooses to shoot
at this cultist here. Six. He actually
decides to shoot at the priestess. Well,
that's actually pretty good. So, he
lifts that crossbow. Now, this crossbow
does plus one damage. Simon raises the
crossbow again. The whole square is
dark. It's lit only by fires. You know,
some of these uh buildings here are on
fire. So, let's put a fire there. Oh,
like that building is on fire. That's
cool.
You know, I really will play just
because I'm a grown man who likes to
play with toys. Let's just admit it. All
right. So,
Simon is going to shoot at the priestess
of Deona with his crossbow.
I'm going to spend my first benny of the
game to reroll that cuz I don't want to
start this off with Simon living up to
the new t-shirt. # sucks. I really want
to create a new design that says ah
Simon's not so bad, but we'll see. Okay,
here we go, Simon. Okay, well, he will
hit with the wild die. Thank goodness.
So, he is going to roll his damage,
which in this case is going to be 2d6 +
one. Here we go. 5 + 1 is six. Her
toughness six. Oh, and the crossbow also
has armor piercing AP2. So, it ignores
two points of armor. Her toughness is
six with one point of armor. Uh AP2
reduces that armor. So, her toughness is
actually five. So, he's rolled a six,
which means it's going to shake your
threes
in frustration as her terrible plans are
about to become unraveled by Simon, who
does not in fact suck, but who in fact
is the best thing since sliced bread.
So, let's slice some bread. Let's do Arn
right here. Arn sees her go down. He was
going to shoot at her. Does he put an
arrow into her anyway? I'm just going to
make it uh one to three. He does. No, he
decides to in fact turn slightly and
fire at this approaching cultist. She
doesn't again. She doesn't go down.
She's shaken. And so she like takes a
bolt and she's kind of staggered a bit.
She's still on her feet. Anyway, Aron is
going to turn and fire. He is equivalent
to Simon. So he's rolling d8, but he has
a long bow and he is going to roll a
four. He is also going to hit. His long
bow is going to go do 2d6 damage and
their toughness toughness six five. So
unfortunately the arrow glances off the
armor. Edbert, as I said, I've made him
a wild card and I've given him a few
things. I've given him a couple of
edges. One edge of his is brave. In
other words, he he gets bonuses on fear
tests. That makes sense considering his
whole situation. He also has the the
edges first strike and sweep. First
strike basically means that if somebody
comes at him, he gets to a chance to hit
them before they can do anything. That's
not going to apply right here. He also
has sweep. Sweep is a great edge to have
if you're attacking a bunch of enemies
cuz you can basically attack all of them
at once. Uh but again, not really
applicable here. He does have his long
sword and his fighting is D8. So he's
going to roll as D8 and D6. And he is
going to roll four under five. He
misses. He's unable to penetrate the
cultist defense, which brings us to the
cultist themselves. So, first of all,
the cultist priestess, she is going to
do a spirit roll to see if she can break
out of the shake. And her spirit is D8.
Uh, two, she does not do it. So, she's
still staggered by this crossbow bolt,
which is great for us. Meanwhile, this
cultist is going to run up and attack
Arn with his, you know, cudgel
basically. He comes in. He rolls a D6.
He will roll an exploding six against AR
and he'll roll eight. So rerolls low.
Oh, that's great. 3 4 five. So the
cultist with the cudgel basically comes
in. Orange just side steps. The c the
cudgel comes down on that statue. Uh the
fountain here and kind of shatters a bit
of it off, but AR is left uh undamaged
from that attack, which is great. This
cultist here is going to attack Edbert,
who he's locked in combat with with his
d6. Two, will not uh go after his parry.
And I think it's very likely that this
cultist here is going to charge at
Simon. So 6 in a little far. So he's
going to have to run. He's going to run
and attack, which means he's going to
take a multi-action penalty of minus
two. He runs up and attacks at minus
two. Three will miss. Simon is able to
sort of dodge out of the way. That's the
first round done.
[Music]
Uh so five will hit him. So he does 2d8
damage. 12 on six is dead. Bang. slays
him dead. Now, at the end of the round,
how does AR react? I think what what Arn
does is he's got his bow out again. I
think he puts his bow up and he slowly I
think Arn takes a few steps around this
wagon here as he's silhouetted from
Simon's perspective. Be silhouetted from
the burning building back here. Get down
on the ground, Simon of Vargasan. We are
both leaving this place, but you will be
leaving in Manacos. And Simon kind of
turns to look at him like incredulously.
Meanwhile, Edbert turns as well, too. He
just came to help rescue you. You can't
be serious. You don't actually want to
try and take him in now. Look at what's
going on around here, man. This place is
overrun. There's more important things
to deal with. Edbert is right. There are
far bigger concerns here than whether
you and I will continue our battle. We
have to find a way to stop this. I think
AR is going to be easily persuaded in
this case to to stand down and actually
help them find some way out of this mess
because it's a giant tidal wave on its
way that's going to strike the town at
any minute. So, he's not a complete
idiot. So, here's what we're going to
do. I'm going to give Simon a persuasion
test. Now, as you recall, Simon does not
have persuasion, but this is hugely in
his favor. So, I'm going to give him a
plus4. So, basically, he's rolling this
at plus two. Okay.
Uh well a two and a one plus two however
is for he succeeds. I will give you a
reprieve from justice this one time
Simon as you are right there are bigger
fish to fry or bigger people to drown as
the case may be. So here's the real
question. Simon has a thought perhaps
cuz remember from uh episode five was it
or six when whatever it was when they
were in the uh inn. Simon went to the
temple of Morgus which is right beside
the inn.
I think I think that the priests of
Morgus cuz remember they're
diametrically opposed to Deona. I think
that the priests are barricaded in that
temple and I think that they are trying
to call upon their god to counter the
effects of this title wave. I think that
that is a nearshure thing. That's a
nearshure thing that they would because
as this is happening, they know what's
going on. They they recognize these
cultists. Are they trying to stop the
tidal wave using the power of their god?
88 is a success. And it is also an
interrupt because our chaos factor is at
8 or or rather a random event. So the
answer is yes. The priests are currently
in the temple trying to to to enact a
ritual to counter the magic of Deona by
stopping that title wave. So Simon says
that is the temple to Morgus. We should
go. I think our best bet at trying to
stop this title wave lies with those
priests. Come with me. And he runs off
and the three of them run off towards
the temple as this town square catches
fire over here too. And here too. Oh my
goodness. They run off to the temple. So
as they get there, however, we have a
random event. The event focus is 94
NPC positive. Who is the focus? Which
which NPC does this involve? 3 1 2.
Okay. And what is the meaning? Something
positive happens to AR as they make
their way towards the temple. 21
release
death. Oh, here's an interesting thing.
Cherylyn the spirit. Edbert knows that
Arn knows something about this undead
temple. What is that? We don't know. I
think that Cherylyn the spirit, the
ghost of Cherylyn spirit bane. She is
basically recognizing the same thing
that Edbert does, which is that he has
some inherent power or he has some
knowledge or something that she is
somehow aware of. Simon's moving up. Uh
uh Arin comes up beside him and as
they're as they're hustling towards the
temple, Arin says to him, "I am not
joking with you, Simon. Our business is
not yet concluded.
You still have crimes to answer for. Do
we really have to talk about this right
now? And at that moment, the ghost,
there's sort of a a wind that whips
around AR. A wind that does not come off
the sea. And AR sort of stops and looks
and his jaw drops open. His eyes go wide
as this spirit manifests itself in front
of him. Does she speak to him? H. She's
never actually spoken before. So, I
think it's unlikely. I think it's
unlikely. I think it's very unlikely
that she speaks. Does she speak to Arn?
73. She does not speak. Okay. So, she
points to Simon and she points to him to
Arn and she brings her hands together
like this. So, obviously the intent is
clear. She wants the two of them to be
working together. And at that moment, I
think that she basically
gives him something. She gives him some
She is a mage. Oh, okay. I think she
still has some of her powers. So I think
what she does is she basically, you
know, communicates to him that the two
of you are supposed to work together.
Warren's like freaking out by this. So
if she's recognizing that he has sort of
special knowledge that he is going to
have to be kept alive, too. So I think
what she does is she cast a spell of
armor on him. There's this spectral
shimmer over AR
as this ghostly armor appears around
him. She was pretty awesome. So I'm
going to give her a D12. Uh, how good
was the spell? Uh, seven success. So,
it's it's it's a decent spell. So, Arin
basically has two points of spectral
armor around him now for as long as she
basically keeps concentrating on it.
Simon sees nothing and says, "Well, is
this really the time to talk about this
now?" As AR is like, "I think that our
friend here is seeing uh Cherylyn, my
Earthwile companion." What? and he looks
and he can see he sees nothing but well
there's no time for any of this. We've
got to go to the temple. So they get up
and they race to the temple. We know
that the priests there at the temple are
trying to do some sort of ritual to stop
the tidal wave from coming in. Are they
being besieged by the cult leader? I I
think that's likely because the cult
leader knows that the only way that this
title wave is going to be stopped is
through the power of the opposite god
which is Morgus. Is the cult of Deona
currently trying to assault the temple
or have they even got in? I think that
is a sure thing. An absolute sure thing.
So yes, they are. Uh so my next question
is have they got in yet? 13. Yes.
Extreme yes. So, not only has the cult
of Deona broken into the temple, they
have already begun their assault on the
priests. And I think that what happens
is as our heroes burst into the main
doors of the temple. What they see is
the temple, and I'm imagining the temple
with like a big stone stairs that lead
down into the main temple area. If you
remember from last time, I said that the
there was no altar, but there was more
like a a a pool of akamarine stones. I'm
I'm seeing it like the the whole temple
is sort of a a recessed area and the
against the far wall is uh is a massive
pool which actually is connected to the
ocean. So it's a pool of sea water that
serves as the altar here. So I think our
guys come in and they're at the top of
this landing and they see these stone
stairs going down into the temple room
proper and they can see that there is a
battle already going on. There are
priests fighting cultists. As Simon
looks across the room, he can see right
by the altar there by the pool of
seawater, which is even now churning
with not only the force of the
approaching tidal wave, but also I think
that the divine magics of both god and
goddess are basically competing against
each other in this pool. So the water is
sloshing and churning and splashing
everywhere. But I think that the high
priest is currently the high priest of
Morgus is currently engaged somehow in
some sort of magical battle perhaps with
the the head priestess of the cult. So
what awaits Simon, Edward, and Arn in
the depths of the temple? Will they be
able to find a way to stop the tidal
wave in time before it destroys the
town? I have no idea. But if you tune in
next time for another episode, you could
find out at the same time as I do. So,
thanks for watching and don't forget to
hit subscribe and like and share the
video and we will see you next time on
Me, Myself, and Die.
Hello and welcome back yet again to Me,
Myself, and I. I am your intrepid host,
GM, and player Trevor Deval. If you like
the show today, don't forget to hit
subscribe and like. It really helps us
out. And don't forget as well that we
have an official merchandise shop. So,
if you want to buy some loot, some gak
uh official junk from the store, you can
find a link for that in the notes below.
When last we left Simon of Argustan, he
and Edward had saved Arn Calapunki from
a group of cultists outside the inn that
were trying to kill him and burn down
the rest of the uh town as well. They
were successful in doing that and also
successful in convincing AR to put down
his hostility towards Simon and actually
work with the two of them to try and
find a way to stop the tidal wave. Simon
thought that the best way to do that was
to go to the temple of Morgus, the sea
god, right next to the inn because he
had been there before and he thought
that if anyone has an ability to counter
the terrible power of Devona, the
goddess of the storm, it would be the
priests of Morgus. Now, Edbert believes
that Arin has some knowledge that could
help them in the temple. That is the
whole reason why he went to save him.
And apparently his ghost Cherylyn agrees
because she manifested in front of Arin
and basically indicated to Arin that he
should really put aside his hostility
and work together with Simon and with
Edbert. So much so in fact that she cast
a spell upon him as she was a mage in
life. She cast a spell upon Ar, the
spell of armor to protect him. What does
she think that Arn knows? I don't know.
Perhaps we'll find out today. But that
is a question for a later time because
right now our group has just entered the
temple of Morgus and has seen the
priests under assault from the high
priestess of the cult of Deona. They
have come in and as I said there's the
there's the big ghoul of water that is
actually churning sea water from the
outside. On the other side of this wall
right here is actually the the ocean. Uh
so this this water slloshing over and
everything like this. Uh the place is
chaos as cultists are engaged uh
fighting with uh uh the various priests
of the temple. Over here we have the
high priest of Morgus and here is the
high priestess of Deona. That's where
our characters find themselves when they
burst in on the scene. So the question I
have right now is how long is it until
the title wave hits? Cuz I think we're
on a ticking clock here. I said last
time that that title wave was on its way
and it was coming fast and furious. So
the question is how many rounds do we
have until that title wave hits? I don't
think there's a lot left. I think that
whatever is going to happen is going to
happen quick. Five rounds. Okay, five
rounds to deal with this plus a d6. So
five plus d6 rounds. I'm going to be
keeping track of that with a separate
die as well. So 5 + 4 is nine rounds
until the title wave hits. Okay, first
of all we go. Simon is on three, but
he's quick. Which ace? Ooh, that's good.
Allies are on king. The baddies are on
nine. Okay, so far so good. Simon is
first. He will say has loaded his
crossbow as they're running up cuz that
makes sense. He sees this situation. The
high priest of Morgus. I think that this
priest was in the middle of conducting
this ritual to to call upon the power of
Morgus to prevent Deona's title wave
from engulfing the town. And that's when
the cultist burst in. So Simon goes
first. He's got his crossbow. He sees
that right here is the cult leader. And
she is preparing some horrible spell. I
think he shouts out as well, take down
the cultist leader. He levels his
crossbow. Stone bolt and he fires his
crossbow. He's D8 shooting. His target
number is four. There's no cover or
anything like that. He fires and he will
explode with the wild eye. Seven. Okay.
Well, seven is a hit. He does hit the
cultist in the shoots her in the back.
Oh, Simon, you coward. The crossbow bolt
flies across the room and will hit her
with its 2d6 plus one damage cuz it is
magical. Oh, it's magical, isn't it?
It's such a magical crossbow. Boom.
Five, six damage. Her toughness is
seven. The bolt buries itself into her
back, but is immediately whisked aside
from this magical armor. And I think
what her the nature of her magical armor
is, it's a combination of whipping winds
and water. Cool. That was Simon. Our
allies on king. Uh, I want to deal with
our main guys first. So, I think Arn
with his bow fires kunk at D8 with his
D6. He is a wild card as well. And he's
going, you know what? I have three
bennies here for our NPCs. This is going
to be This is going to count for AR. And
this is also going to count for Edbert.
So, I'm going to spend one of those NPC
uh bennies to reroll cuz this is pretty
important. Arn shoots and we'll roll a
five, which will hit, but not with a
raise. So, 2d6 damage from the bow on
toughness of seven will be uh five.
Nothing done. Again, the bolt, but is
swept away by the swirling magical
winds. So does the arrow. Nothing done
there. Which brings us to Edbert. I
think he's going to run down the stairs
and engage this guy, but he's going to
have to run with a d6 as he runs down
here. The ghost will follow him. So, the
ghost comes in and is sort of swirling
ethereally around Edbert, but he is
going to draw and attack, but a minus
two because it's a multi-action penalty.
He was a wild card. That was an eight. I
hope it's okay. So, he explodes with the
six. Nine minus two is seven. He will
hit the regular cultist parry five. He's
going to roll 2d8 damage from his long
sword against toughness of six cuz
they're wearing some ports of armor. 14
against toughness six is enough to slay
him. He kills that cultist. Now I'm
going to quickly do the battle here.
Does this priest do anything? Five. He
might. He's going to hit with his, you
know, small cudel or whatever it is. Uh
versus toughness
six. Uh four will do nothing. Bang. Over
here. Does this priest hit? No. And over
here, does this priest hit? No. That's
all of our allies, which brings us to
the enemy. So, this priestess, she has a
couple of spells that I more or less
determined randomly. One is armor, and I
think she has that up already. She also
has blast, which is a spell that in this
case is like she can call upon her
goddess to deliver a massive clap of
thunder, which is going to damage people
in a wide area. And finally, she has
something called barrier. And barrier is
she can basically cause a massive wall
of water to create a barrier between her
and whoever she wants. But I think she's
going to try. She's going to do a spirit
roll. I'm sorry. She's going to do a
faith roll, which is a skill in Savage
Worlds that you you use to draw upon the
power of your god or goddess in this
case. Her faith and she is a wild card
is d10. Savage worlds often uses power
points. I use an option rule called no
power point. So basically uh she's going
to take a penalty on the roll based on
how many power points she should be
expending. So she has to make this roll
at minus three. Okay. And again her
target number is four like in most
cases. 7 minus 3 is four. She gets that
barrier up. So this will represent the
wall of water. Okay. So it goes up right
there. Whoosh. This churning wall of
water. I think what happens too is as
she completes the the prayer to her dark
goddess Deona, the churning seawater
from the large pool here basically
shoots out in a big arc and and forms
itself almost like a giant pseudopod
forms itself into this churning wall of
waters. Okay, let's go in order here.
Let's deal with the guys that are
dealing with the priest. So over here,
anything happens? No. Over here.
Anything happens? Yes. Explode 12.
That's definitely a hit with a ray. So
that's going to be 3 to six damage
against this priest right here. Oh my
god. 13.
Oh yeah. So this priest goes down. This
cultist with a long knife basically just
stabs it right down the collar bone of
this priest who dies. I think he's going
to move over here and join this fight.
But he won't be able to do that till the
next round. Meanwhile, over here, this
guy does attack this priest. He will
miss. That leaves these two cultists
here. One of them is going to run. 1 2 3
4 5. Not run, but uh move over and
attack Edbert. So, let's deal with that.
Five against Edbert's parry. Parry is
six. So, no, the cultist will not be
able to bypass Edbert's defenses. This
one goes 1 2 3 4 5 six and will run
seven and will attack at a multi-action
penalty against Arn and he will roll a
three. So, he will miss. That was the
bad guys of the first round. The first
round is over. We go down now to round
eight as the title wave gets closer.
Okie dokie. Here we go. Simon
is on two, but he's quick, so he's on
queen. Allies are on 10. Patty's on
eight. So, Simon is first. Simon the
first of his name. Well, he is going to
reload and fire. Now, a crossbow, if you
do that, you take a multi-action penalty
cuz it takes one action to reload. But
he's got to do it. So, I think he's
going to fire at that. Is the bolt going
to do anything? It's possible the bolt
destroys that one. He's going to try.
He's going to try. He levels the
crossbow and fires at minus two. What do
we get? Oh, he explodes. So, 9 - 2 is
seven. So, he will hit the section of
all. And now he's going to do his
damage. 2d6 + one against toughness of
10. So he just needs to get 10. It's
possible. How much damage does he do?
Five. The bolt basically disappears into
the swirling water. That was Simon. Our
allies. I think that Arn drops his bow,
pulls a sword, and attacks at a minus
two. Uh - 2 is four. He will not be able
to hit that dude over here. Uh Edbert
attacks this new fella. This new fella.
Hey fella. How are you? Why don't I Why
don't I drive a sword through your guts?
Boom. He rolls a three. It's okay. He
completely misses over here. Uh the the
priest on the cultist will miss. And
this priest who is now outnumbered two
to one is going to explode with a nine.
That is a that's a hit with a raise. So
he's going to do 3d6 damage to this
fella right here. And he's going to do
five six against his toughness of six.
He will shake this guy. Boom. Good. And
that is all of our except now the high
priest of Morgus. Well, the high priest
of Morgus has some spells as well, too.
What's the high priest of Morgus? Oh,
here's a question. Does the priest of
Morgus have the dispel power to be able
to try and bring down this wall?
Unlikely. Chaos factor 8 uh 63. He does.
He does have the dispel, but does he try
desperately to continue this this chant
to try and stop that title wave, or does
he deal with this immediate threat right
here, or does he try and bring that wall
down? I think um I'm going to roll 1d6.
1 to two, he continues the chant. 3 to
four, he uh does some sort of attack on
the the the cult priestess. Uh 5 to six,
he does a dispel on the wall. One, so he
turns and tries to regain his focus and
begins to invoke the power of Morgus. So
here's an interesting thing. I wonder
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
give him a faith role. And if he
succeeds, he's going to basically
increase the amount of time that we have
until that title wave. So basically, as
he succeeds in his role, the power of
Morgus rises up out in the ocean to
basically push that massive title wave
back. Okay. Does he succeed? He is also
a d10, but he's not a wild card. Only
the bad guy is. Boom. For Oh, well, that
is a success. So, it wasn't a a success
with the race. So, I'm going to increase
that from eight back up to nine. So, he
did some good at least. That is it for
the allies. We go to the baddies. Let's
deal with this priest right here. I
think this priest got armor up, has done
the barrier. This priest, priestess, I
should say, does have the blast power.
She'd be using it at minus2 because uh
she's she's basically concentrating on
two powers right now. She she lifts up
her arms and she she you know calls out
to Deona as the water churns even more
over here. Boom. Oh, 10 and two is 12
minus 2 is 10. That is a success with a
raise. There is a massive crack of
thunder. Boom. Right there. So 2d6
damage against this priest's toughness
of six. And it's going to be eight
versus six. The power of Deona shakes
the priest as he sort of slumps against
the side of the pool here, trying
desperately to maintain his
concentration as he's still spitting out
the words of prayer to Morgus to try and
stop Deona's power from engulfing the
town. Okay, that was her. Over here,
quickly, this cultist on this priest
will miss. Uh, this cultist, does he get
up? He does not. This cultist attacks
his priest. He will also miss. over
here. This cultist attacks Edbert with a
exploder and he will roll in here 11
which is a hit with a raise. So he does
3d6 against Edbert. That is a hell of a
hit. And he does nine uh 13 damage
against him. His toughness is eight. So
eight will shake him. 12 will wound him.
Bang. Edbert's going to take a wound
unless he rolls to soak. He is a wild
card and he's going to have to take one
of his special NPC bennies to make this
soak roll. And the silk roll is in fact
a vigor and he's pretty good at this.
Eight and a d6. He's taken one wound
otherwise and he will roll a failure.
Ooh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy. We're going
into new round of initiatives.
Initiavos.
Simone. Simon on ace. Allies on queen.
Baddy's on two. Simon is on ace. He uh
now he's fired at that wall to to no
effect. To no effect. That's an old
Balders's Gate game reference for those
of you who played that game back in the
day. Anyway, so he is fired at the wall.
It's done nothing. Does he try again? He
knows that Edbert's ghost was
instrumental in helping them last time.
He shouts,
"Shery, if that is your name, you must
try and bring down that barrier." as he
fires at oh we'll say the guy that
Edward is currently engaged with. It's a
dangerous game because if he rolls a one
on the shooting guy it could hit him.
He's rolling a minus two because he's
aiming and fire. That's the problem with
the crossbow is that it takes a round to
reload and if you don't take that round
then you fire at minus two and he will
miss because it's minus two. He is going
to move his six however to the edge of
the stairs here. Allies is fighting his
guy with his sword. He will miss over
here. Edbert is fighting his guy with
his long sword and he will also miss.
Oh, does he use his last Benny? No, I
don't think he does. He just misses.
Allies over here. This fell right here
is going to attack the dude. He's going
to miss. This guy over here is going to
attack this cultist. Oh, it's looking
good. He will hit with a raise. That's
great. 3d6 damage on this cultist. Uh,
that will kill him. Oh, right on. Over
here, we do our priest to see if he gets
back up again. Luckily, he has a high
spirit. He is not a wild card, however.
Does he break his shake? Of course not.
He does not. So that's it for the
allies. And now the baddies. Let's start
with the baddy over here. Bdy over here
is going to see if he can break his
shake. He does, but it takes him his
entire round to do it. Bd over here is
going to attack Arn. Will miss. Bdie
over here is going to attack Edbert. Oo.
Exploder six. So he's going to 2d6
damage. Oh boy. 8 9 10 versus seven.
will shake Edbert over here on this
priest. This guy will miss. Now this
priestess I think she is going to try
and call upon Deona to undo the ritual
cuz that's what this guy was the high
priest here was was praying and shouting
and chanting into the water to try and
uh harness the power of Morgus to stop
Deona's ritual. The whole reason why
this cultist is here is to eliminate
that. So yes, by killing the high priest
that would put an end to that. However,
actually, you know what? have to make
this random. Does the priestess go up
and attack the priest of Morgus? 1 to
three. She does. She does not. So, in
fact, she turns and begins to chant and
she's going to do the same thing that
the high priestess except in reverse.
She's going to do a spirit roll. And if
she succeeds, she's going to lessen the
amount of time that this happens. She's
rolling d10 and she is a wild card cuz
she is a big baddy. Exploding six. Seven
is not a raise. Simple success. So, she
turns and begins to chant to Deona. And
over here, because we are on a new
round, we're down to eight. And she now
chants and turns us down to seven rounds
left at the end of the round, which is
kind of bad news. Out in the ocean, the
the two gods are struggling with this
title wave. I'm not sure what that looks
like, and it doesn't really matter cuz
none of our characters could see it. But
as the audience, we see that title wave
sort of being forced back and forth by
these titanic divine struggles going on.
Woo! All right, new round. The first
thing we do at the top of the round is
boom, we go down to six now. So, we go
down to six. Six rounds left. And we do
the new initiative. Simon is going to be
on seven. Allies on eight. Baddy's on
six. So, allies are first. Going to
start over here with the high priest.
Does the high priest break his shake
this time? Please do it, pal. That's a
one. Unfortunately, he is unable to. He
is just He was hit hard by this
thunderclap. Ah, he's screaming. It's
still ringing in his ears. Allies over
here. This priest is going to attack
this cultist. He's going to miss. Uh,
this guy's going to attack the cultist.
He's also going to miss. Arin Arin's
going to attack this cultist. He was
going to totally miss. And Edbert is
going to do a spirit roll to get up, but
he is wounded. So that means everything
he does is at minus one. So f. So he
gets up, but not with the rays. That's
better than nothing. There's one ally
left, and that is the ghost.
Simon has yelled to the ghost in the
previous round to go and try and break
that wall. The ghost knows what's going
on. The ghost knows everything we do.
The ghost knows that this high priestess
is the real target of And if they don't
take that priestess out, if they don't
deal with this wall and take the
priestess out, that wave is coming cuz
they need to protect this high priest.
They need to get him back on his feet so
he can enact the ritual and finish. So,
I think the ghost is going for that
wall.
What does the ghost do? What does the
ghost do? I don't think the ghost can do
anything other than huck something.
But the ghost is a mage. This ghost has
already used her powers on AR, giving
him this shimmering spectral armor. Does
she have the dispel power? It is likely.
It is only likely she does have access
to the dispel power. Dispelling the
opponent's power is an opposed role of
arcane skills. The dispelling character
suffers a minus two modifier if the
target power is of another type. Uh,
yes. So, it is another type cuz this is
this is miracles and her type is magic.
As Cherylyn begins in her spectral way
to cast the dispel, she is going to roll
a d12 and she's going to get five. Okay,
the priestess is aware that something is
trying to bring down her unholy wall.
So, she immediately does an an opposed
face. Oh, look at that. But what did we
have? We had Cherylyn roll a five. Minus
two is three. She rolls a three. It's a
tie. In a tie, the two foes continue to
struggle with no clear victor. So,
they're locked in this battle of wills
essentially. And now it's the baddies.
The high priestess knows that there was
a more significant threat on the other
side of that wall. Does she do something
about it? Let's come back to her. This
cultist over here is going to attack our
priest and is going to miss. This
cultist right here is still going to
attack Arn and he will miss. This
cultist over here is going to attack the
wounded Edbert and he will completely
miss. this cultist is going to attack
this priest and we'll completely miss.
So that leaves us only with the high
priestess. Here's the thing. She's got
three things going on right now. One,
she's got a shaken high priest, which is
the key to all of this. She's also got
this churning battle of the gods going
on in the water here. She's also got
this new threat on the other side of the
wall. So what does she deal with? One to
three, trying to end the high priest.
That's really bad. I'm sorry. 1 to two,
it's going to be dealing with the high
priest, which is really bad. 3 to four,
she's going to once again focus on the
water to try and knock this timer down.
Five to six, she's going to do something
about the ghost on the other side. What
does she do? It is probably the best
possible outcome for us. She turns and
she's going to do a spirit roll again to
see if she can create that title wave
coming in quicker. If she succeeds, it
goes down by one. If she succeeds with
the raise, succeeds with the raise, it
goes down by two. Here we go. And she Oh
no. Why did I say that? Why did I say
that? She rolls an eight, which is a
success with the raise, which means the
timer goes down by two. And it is also
the end of the round, which means as we
go into a new round, this thing drops
again to three. That title wave is
coming in hard. Let us see what the
initiatives are. Simon is quick. He's on
eight. Allies on the Joker. That's good.
And Baddy's on five. All of the allies
are suddenly inspired or rather panicked
by the fact that time is running out and
that tidal wave is coming upon them.
They can hear it. The roar, the crash of
the surf. This pool is going crazy as
well. Water splashing everywhere,
churning like a maelstrom. Okay, so over
here, this guy is going to attack this
cultist at a plus two. Yes, he explodes
with uh 9 10 11. That is a hit with a
raise. He's going to do 3d6 damage plus
two cuz the joker two to everything. The
cultist have a toughness of six. So,
he's going to roll 10. 13 + 2 is 50. He
got to kill that cultist. Boom. Awesome.
And then he's going to move 1 2 3 4 5
six allies over here. So, this guy, this
priest attacks this. Oh, this priest
attacks the cultist and is 11 13. That
is a hit with a raise. He's going to
roll 3d6 with his cudgel against
toughness of six. Oh boy, they're
inspired right now. Six and five is 11
12 13 14 kills that cultist dead. Bang.
So AR over here uh also attacks on plus
two. He's part of the allies as well.
He's going to hit with a five. That's a
regular hit. So he's going to 2d6. A
plus two damage. That's going to be uh
six plus two is eight against toughness
of six. We'll shake this cultist. Bang.
Edbert is wounded. He's got this cult in
front of him. is going to attack at plus
one because he's got the plus two from
the joker but minus one from the wound
he's suffering. So plus one he's going
to hit with a five cuz the parry is
five. So he's going to do 2d8 damage
plus two. Bang. He 5 plus two is seven
damage which is going to shake this guy.
Boom which is good. Oh and the ghost.
The ghost is going to do an a spell
check. Right now it's uh competing. So
this is going to be minus one.
Unfortunately 10 minus one is nine. That
is a great roll. Minus one for the spell
she's upholding. Minus two for the
differences of magic, but plus two cuz
the joker. So, in fact, she rolled nine.
She's going to roll her faith and her
wild card at Oh no, it's once again it's
a tie. Nothing done. Simon, he's going
to run down. He drops the crossbow and
he goes up to this wall pulling his
sword as he does and he attacks the
water wall trying desperately to hack
through it and destroy it. He's only got
to get a two though. That's pretty. So,
three. So, he will hit and he not with a
ray. So, he's doing 2d6 damage against
toughness 10. No, his sword just
basically gets caught up in the churning
waters of this water wall. Uh, now it is
the baddies. Oh, hold on. Hold on. Ah, I
forgot about I forgot about this. In the
Joker round for our high priest, our
high priest has to do a spirit roll to
get up, but he's at plus two to do it.
Five. He will do it, but he couldn't do
anything. So, that that was the totality
of his round. Then, Simon did his thing.
And now it is the baddy's turn. Let us
deal with this baddy first. He does his
spirit roll to get up. He will not. This
does. He does his spirit roll. He will
not. And this baddy now. We've got three
rounds left. Very, very, very bad. Once
again, does the does this cultist go
after the priest? Does she go after the
water or does she turn and and uh deal
with the ghost? I think right now it's
one to three. She's going to go after
the priest because he is clearly
turning. He's the greatest threat. Four
to five is this and six is that three.
So she goes after the priest. So she is
going to once again cast this spell at
minus two because she has two spells up.
She rolls her faith and she is a wild
card. But these are minus two. She's
doing a blast. We explode on the d6
is 9 - 2 is seven. That is a regular
success. So, he's shaking again. H, but
he's not wounded, which is, you know,
it's not terrible. This brings us to the
uh new round. We've got a joker. So, we
have to reshuffle the deck. This is
tough because, as you can see right
here, as we go into the new round, it
now goes down to two. It now goes down
to two. This is bad. This is really bad
because right now, the tidal wave is
making its way closer and closer and
closer to the shore. If they don't stop
this in the next two rounds, if they
don't deal one way or another in the
next two rounds, that title wave is
going to hit Hundra,
what happens when it does? Well, could
be game over for everybody. I'm I'm I'm
going to say that this is probably the
most dangerous
event that Simon has ever had to
encounter. Perhaps it would have been
wise if he had abandoned his friend.
Perhaps they're all going to be ghosts
in a few rounds. We shall see what
happens.
Boy, oh boy. Oh boy. Boom. Simon is on
seven. Allies are on five. Okay. Baddies
are on seven, but uh hearts before
clubs. So Simon goes first. He is going
to attack that wall again. They have to
get through it. He attacks with a two.
Okay. Well, that's enough cuz the fair
is only two of the wall. He does 2d6
damage. Does he explode? Seven will not
do it. That is it for Simon. That brings
us to the baddies. This guy over here
first. He is going to do a spirit roll
to get up. Oh. Oh, seven. So, he does
not succeed with raise, but he is up and
he can't do anything. This guy over here
does a spirit roll. Also explodes with
an eight. So, this time he will get up
and attack Edbert, who's right in front
of him. Boom. He will miss. And other
baddies are Oh, there's only the high.
So, again, I think we're back down to 1
to two, 3 4 5 to six, one to five. Ooh.
So she turns and is going to try and
deal with this ghost beyond the churning
water wall. So she is going to try and
basically create this massive thunder
clap that's going to center here and
basically it's going to hit these guys
if it goes off. But she's going to be a
minus two and another minus two cuz
she's already maintaining two spells.
Her faith. Her faith. She is rolling her
faith right now. Her faith in Deona who
is just a real at minus four. Two.
It does not go off
the allies. Let's deal with the most
important thing right now. The ghost is
once again going to try and bring down
this wall with the dispel at minus one.
Oh, you know what? The ghost has to use
a benny cuz this is so crucial. This is
so crucial. Minus one. God,
it's even worse. And there's no more
bennies for the NPCs to use. So the the
water wall does not get dispelled. That
was this Edbert. He's going to just
move. He's going to draw the attack of
opportunity because he sees what's going
on here. He's going to draw the attack
of opportunity from this uh cultist
right here who's going to attack and
miss. And he is going to attack this
water wall. Come on, Edbert. Come on,
Edbert. Give us a hit. He does hit it.
2d8 damage against the water wall.
Toughness 10. Nine.
He's unable to penetrate the water wall.
Allies over here. These two dudes are
coming up and attacking him. Each one,
one of them will hit, which will shake
this dude. Pow. Meanwhile, the priest,
the priest, get up, man. Get up. Make
your spirit roll with a raise. With the
raise. He rolled the eight. So, he gets
up with the ra, which means he can act.
So, he immediately turns to the water
and begins to call upon the power of
Morgus again. Please, pal. Please,
please, please, please, please succeed
at this. And he will fail. He will fail
at this. He will fail at this. Okay. Um
we ar over here is going to still try
and take this dude out. A hit with a
raise. So he's going to do 3d6 damage
against this fella. Uh 567 will shake
him. He cannot put him down. That is it
for our round. Which means my friends,
my dear friends, we have exactly one
round left. One round left. At the end
of this next round, at the end of this
round, that title wave hits Hundra. See
what the initiives are. Simon, he's
quick. Simon's quick. He's on 10. Okay.
Allies on three. Baddies on six. The
final round of everyone's life. Perhaps
Simon goes first. He is going to Oh,
does he have anything he can do besides
swing this stupid sword? Is there
anything he can do? Oh, you know what?
He does have the magic crossbow, which I
did say he dropped. I did say he dropped
it up here. I have an idea. And I think
he's desperate. I think that he knows
his sword is doing nothing to this wall
of water. This magical wall of water. He
has a magic item. Perhaps, perhaps if he
goes up and grabs that item and says a
prayer to Morgus and to any god who
might be listening, if he throws that
crossbow at that water, will the
inherent magic of that crossbow help to
dispel that section of the wall? I don't
know. The fate chart's going to tell us.
Simon's going to try this. He runs up
here, grabs the crossbow, turns,
whispers, actually shouts a prayer to
Morgas or to any god that might be
listening, and he hurls the crossbow at
the wall. He doesn't have throwing,
which is a skill, so he's going to be
minus two, but he only needs to hit two.
So, he hurls this. Okay, he hits the
wall with the magical crossbow. Does the
power of the crossbow does it hit the
wall and basically cancel out the power
of this wall but destroying itself in
the process?
Very unlikely. We have a 65% chance of a
yes. 81.
We're all going to die here. The
crossbow hits the wall of water and
bounces off landing on the ground.
He's
It didn't work. It didn't work. Which
brings us to the baddies. Let's go over
here. This baddy tries to get up. Does
not. This baddy tries to get up. Doesnot
act. This baddy
is so close right now. Once again, does
she deal with the high priest? Does she
deal with the the water basically
causing this to turn to a zero? Or does
she deal this? This is all the marbles
right here. If we get a three or a four,
this bad a five. So, she turns to try
and deal with this ghost again. She is
going to be rolling at a minus 4 to try
and use her blast power. So, she is
going to roll her d10 and her d6, but at
minus 4
- 4 is two. It fails because she's
trying she's trying to cast a spell past
the water. She's also maintaining two
different spells right now. So, she is
unable to do that. That is very good.
That brings us to the end of her turn.
It is all up to the ghost. The ghost is
going to do a dispel check. D12.
No more bennies. This is for all the
marbles against her opposed faith. What
have we got? 10. Okay. But 10 minus two
because it's a different uh type of
magic. So really that is eight. So, she
is rolling this at minus2 because of the
spells that she has up right now. And
she's going to roll zero, which means
that this wall is dispelled, or at least
this section is. Boom. There is a gap in
the wall as the ghost brings some of it
down.
Okay, Edbert, it is up to you, my Irish
friend. It is totally up to you now. So
Edbert rushes in the gap and plunges his
sword, wounded as he is, into the high
priestess. Now she also has magical
armor on two points of armor, so her
toughness is up there. Does he hit her
parry is five. Come on, buddy. This is
okay. He explodes. He explodes with a
wild eye and he gets 11 uh minus one. So
he gets a 10. That is a hit with a
raise. hit with a raise, he gets two d8
damage and the d6 damage. Her toughness,
however, is seven. Here we go. Here we
go. She is a wild card, too, which is
not great. A 9 and four uh is 13 versus
seven. So, seven shakes her. Uh 7 8 9 10
11 gives her a wound. Bang. Ah, Arn is
going to attack the guy who's shaken cuz
that's what he does. He's going to
explode both times. He's going to
explode both. He's definitely going to
hit with Oh, yeah. He just keeps
exploding. He's going to hit with a
razor. It's going to be 3d6 damage. This
guy's already shaking. He killed him.
Boom. Congratulations, AR. At this time,
sees this. And he uses his movement to
escape. He runs out of the room cuz
there's no way Arn is going to stick
around for this. He's going to try and
get to safety. Although, I don't know if
he's going to be able to do it. These
two priests are going to rush into the
gap and the high priest is going to use
them as they all focus on trying to stop
this from happening. Okay. Each one of
these is rolling a d8 in faith. Okay.
Well, one of them doesn't work it, but
the other one get 16. 16 and five is 21.
Oh my god, that's all the raises. So,
he's going to add plus four. So, our
high priest now turns to the water with
one round remaining. And he
calls upon his god with a plus four.
Nine. He rolls nine. Nine plus four is
13. That's 4 8 12. That's uh two raises.
Two raises is not enough to stop the
title wave. But it is enough to give us
three more rounds added to the clock.
Boy, talk about close. Talk about close.
Four. So way out to sea. Once again, the
title wave goes back and forth and back
and forth, contested by two titanic
divine powers. Hundra holds its breath.
Okay, he bought us some time. We go back
to a new round now. Simon is quick.
Simon is quick. Simon is on 10. Allies
on six baddies on Jack. Let's deal with
the high priestess first. So, she's
going to do a spirit roll, but she's at
minus one cuz she's wounded.
Uh minus one is five. So she succeeds.
She's wounded. It takes her whole round
to come out of Shaken. Meanwhile, this
guy runs up. He doesn't see the ghost,
but he runs up behind Edward through the
gap in the water and tries to attack
him. Ah, he will miss. So, it's Simon
now. Simon has uh comes down, grabs his
crossbow, and loads it and moves,
continues his movement, and fires with a
multi-action penalty at the High
Priestess. grabs it, it, leaps in
front of the gap, kabunk, and fires.
Fires at a minus two. 6 - 2 is four. So,
we will hit. He's going to hit 2d6 + 1.
He's going to roll seven. Eight
14.
17 damage against the cultist. Toughness
is seven. And that will cause the final
wound. The cultist takes Simon's bolt in
the throat as she's turning to the
water, trying desperately to finish her
prayers. She came so close, but with her
death caused by Simon, the high priest,
wasting no time, gathers his lesser
priests around him and complete their
exhortations to Morgus, the sea god to
intervene on their behalf and stop this
tidal wave. And she can see now the
churning waters bubbling inside the pool
slowly start to calm and recede as far
out in the water. In the ocean, the
tidal wave bursts apart into a bazillion
droplets, ending the tidal wave. I can't
believe I'm about to say this, but Simon
of Argustinon just saved the town of
Hundora. He didn't do it alone, but he
got the final shot. I swear to God, this
whole thing is just the coolest thing.
Oh my god. I I mean, how often do you
have these kind of experiences in a
game? I mean, it almost never happens
yet. It happens every episode here.
Okay. Wow. This is totally exhausting.
They live. They all live. The town of
Huntorra is saved. So, um, we're going
to quickly update our charts. Threads
will escape the title wave. Yeah, we we
did it in a way that I didn't expect to
happen. Oh, Arn fled. Well, we're going
to put that as a new thread. Ar has fled
for his life.
You know what? I think that is actually
a perfect place to end this this total
group of scenes. In the aftermath of all
this, we're going to reset everything
back to five. Wow. There it is, guys.
Simon of Argistan apparently
does not suck so much. That brings us to
the end of this episode. Make sure you
hit like and subscribe. Feel free to
leave a comment if you enjoyed what you
saw here today. If you have any ideas
about, you know, the world building, all
that kind of stuff. Some of you have
been adding to that in the comment
section. I think that's great. Like,
subscribe, and tune in next time for the
next installment of Me, Myself, and Die.
Well, hello and welcome back once again
to Me, Myself, and Die. I am, as always,
your intrepid host, player, and games
master, Trevor Deval. Before we get
started today, I mentioned a show or two
ago that we have official merchandise
for sale. So, if you want to buy some
things like this, this lovely cup right
here, it'll show you. Look at that. Oh,
me, myself, and die. Look at that. It's
lovely.
M. So, if you're interested in helping
out the show and supporting the show
that way, by all means, check that out.
When we last saw Simon and friends, they
had entered the temple of Morgus, which
itself was under attack by the cultist
of Deona, led by the high priestess of
Deona, and they were intent on
slaughtering all the priests of Morgus
there in order to prevent them from
enacting a ritual, a counter ritual, if
you will, that would stop the title wave
from hitting the town. Simon and friends
managed somehow by some miracle to stop
them and to slay all of the uh Deon
priestesses and cultists and save the
town. Now, interestingly enough, as that
happened, right before that happened, AR
thought that the game was up. Arin saw
this title wave coming in or heard it or
felt its presence or whatever, he knew
that uh the title wave was coming and so
he decided at the last second to get out
of dodge. So he turned and fled right
before Simon and Edbert and the ghost
actually saved the day. So I think where
we start the scene here is Simon and
Edbert coming out of the temple of
Morgus coming up those stairs and into
the sorely damaged town of Hundora
damaged from all the fires and the the
the fighting in the streets and things
like this. I think the population uh is
is breathing a collective sigh of relief
as they see that massive title wave has
completely dissipated. However, they
still have to deal with the fact that
half the town is on still on fire and
that there's, you know, uh, dead bodies
in the streets. And I think that the
town guard as well is is going around
sort of mopping up the remaining
cultists and things. But as they come
out of the temple, Simon notices that
that Edbert is wounded. Edbert, Edbert,
your wound. I have to tend to it right
now. We've we've got to find that. He He
scared off somewhere. Yes, I know,
Edbert. Anne can wait, though. That
wound cannot. Simon is going to do a
little heel roll, but he does have it at
D4. And let's see where we're at. Double
ones. Critical failure. Well, I'm not
going to let that stand. That's crazy.
I'm going to be spending my first benny
of the game to reroll. Now, he is
rolling a minus one actually because in
Savage World, you take off the penalty
of the patient as well. So, it's minus
one. Here we go. Minus one. Look at
that. There we go. That's a little
better. Benny well spent finally. 5 - 1
is four. So, that is a success. Edbert
is no longer wounded, but it does take
10 minutes. The whole reason why they're
in this mess in the first place is
because Edbert knows that Arn knows
something about the temple. What that
something is, we have no idea. But
they've just risked their lives in order
to find find out to save Arin's life
which led them to the temple and and
here we are. So I think that's the first
thing that happens is they they come out
of the temple and you know they're
looking around uh is there any sign of
Aron? That's where we're going to start.
So we before we do I'm going to do our
chaos check. So to see if the the scene
is altered or interrupted. So remember
we're back down to chaos level five as
things have sort of come back down reset
themselves. So let us roll our d10 and
see if the scene is interrupted five
which means that the scene is going to
be altered. The scene is there looking
for or they're about to start looking
for orange. So, I think the the most
logical thing is that they don't find
him. Uh that that for some he's actually
nowhere to be seen. They get up and they
begin to explore the town. Now, as I
said, the town is still in chaos. So,
there's still people running around.
There's these, you know, people uh like
like water brigades basically putting
out the fires and things like this. Ar
is nowhere to be found. You know, they
search for a good 20 minutes around this
area. There's no way Arn could have
gotten this far so fast. Where could he
be? I don't know. I think they're going
to have to do like a street wise role to
see if they can talk to anybody, you
know, excuse me, have you seen this man?
And giving a description of our things
like that. Both of these guys have
penalties on their charismas. Simon
because he's an outsider and u Edbert
because he's bloodthirsty.
Well, they're they're two wild cards.
So, I think they're I'm going to give
them both a role, but they're going to
have to split up. You take the east part
of the town, I'll take the west. And
they split up. So, Simon for his role.
Now, he does not have street wise, of
course. Why would he have a useful
skill? Why on earth would he have a
useful skill? So, he's going to roll
This is terrible. He's going to fail
because he's rolling minus two because
he doesn't have the skill. Then a
further minus two because of terrible
charisma. Uh, no. So, he's going to
spend an hour and come up with nothing.
Edbert. Oh my god. Edbert has the skill.
Look at that. Who knew? So, he's going
to roll. So, this is still at minus two
instead of minus 4 because of his
penalty. No. So, after an hour
searching, they meet up back at the
sailor's mess. the now no longer burning
sailor's mass and uh they they come up
empty-handed.
What are we supposed to do now? The
entire reason why we came back here was
to gain allies. The one ally in town
that you think would be actually useful
to us has disappeared. No, we have to
fight him. He's clearly not in town. He
must have left town. He must have
actually gone into the wild. Well,
Simon, you're a ranger. You can track
him, right? Well, I can certainly try.
It'll be much more difficult at night. I
think that it's it's like early evening
basically at this point. I think the
cult is probably struck in the early
evening. So maybe it's around 9:00,
10:00, something like that. So they're
pretty exhaust. They have been on the
road all day as well. So they're they're
pretty tired. I think that they have no
choice, but they they clearly AR is not
in the town, at least as far as I can
tell. Uh so I think that they have no
choice but to try and go into the wilds
to try and track him down. So luckily
Simon is in fact a ranger and he does
actually have tracking. Who knew?
Something he's I think moderately good
at. It was D6. It's, you know, it's not
terrible. The the gates are still wide
open because the guards are way too uh
busy trying to help fight the fires and
as I said before, like mop up the
cultist and things like this. So, they
do slip out of town and right away Simon
goes to work with his tracking.
Unfortunately, at minus two, does he
pick up Arn's tracks? Actually, we don't
know if Arn did leave town or not. They
think he did because they failed their
street wise roll. Maybe if he succeeds
in the track roll, he does actually find
something and then maybe we'll go to the
faith chart. But for right now, let's
ask Savage World what happens. Does he
do the track roll? Oh, exploder six.
Four is 10 minus 2 because it's night is
8. He will succeed with a raise. So the
question now, is there something to
find? If there is, he will definitely
find it cuz Simon is a great tracker and
this is the first time he's ever
actually got to use that skill. I think
so. This is great. Let's ask the fake
chart. Did AR in fact leave town? I'm
just going to call it 50/50 cuz I really
have no idea. 50/50. Here we go. On KS
factor 5 42 is a yes. So, he did leave
town, which means Simon picks up his
tracks. So, which way are they headed?
Are they headed back to the temple or
are they headed in a totally different
direction? I have no idea. I have no
idea why Aron would go to the temple. I
have no idea what he knows. So, let's
call it 50/50. 50/50. Did Arn head
towards the temple? At least in that
general direction. No, he did not. It's
not an extreme no. So, he's not heading
somewhere totally opposite, but he's he
is not going towards the temple. So,
right now, these guys are on a coast.
It's a it's a western coast. To the
north is a series of mountains. To the
east, it's a series of plains, I guess,
and forest. I'm not really sure what's
to the east. So, I think that's where
Aron went. Orange tracks lead not north,
not back to the temple of Thurzan or
beyond, but rather east into unknown
lands for us. So, Simon is able to
follow the tracks for one mile in the
dark. It's very hard to do, but he does.
Where is Arin going? This is important.
Now, where is Arin going? And why did he
leave town? Did he flee Simon? Was he
fleeing Simon because he was afraid that
Simon was going to come after him and
with his new friends, his ghostly
friends? Cuz don't forget Aron also
knows about the ghost. Arin saw the
ghost and he could have been totally
freaked out by that as well. Maybe this
was just way too much for him. Did Arin
flee town because he was afraid that
Simon and his friends were going to take
vengeance on him for abandoning the
fight? You know what? I think that's I
think that's very unlikely. I don't
think that's the reason why he left. 25%
chance on this for a yes answer. 66 is a
no answer and it's doubles, but it's
over the chaos factor of five. So, it's
not a it's not a random event. So, no,
he did not flee for that reason, which
means he left town for a different
reason.
He didn't leave because he was afraid of
Simon taking vengeance on him. Remember,
he is still technically hunting Simon.
So, he has an intention of getting Simon
and and putting him back in chains and
leading him and and leading him back to
the the city to the north to Manford of
Doved, but he did leave for a reason.
We've closed off the thread that says
Aren wants to test Simon's character
from last time. So he did test his
character because he Simon saved his
life. Simon and Edward saved Arin's
life. I think that he actually fled the
town before he knew that the title wave
hit. So I don't think Arin has any idea
that that the title wave didn't hit.
What is the purpose of him going to the
east?
Uh 78
cruelty
30 possessions.
Cruelty of possessions.
I think that he still believes he needs
to take Simon in that he he's pretty
he's pretty set on that. I think he's
certainly questioned whether or not
Simon is guilty, but AR, you know, he's
got his reputation as a bounty hunter
stake. It doesn't matter if the guy's
guilty or innocent. He said he was going
to bring him in. He's going to bring him
back alive. Cruelty of possessions. I
think that Arn has a secret weapon, a
secret stash of something buried off in
the woods to the east, and he's going
there to get it because he knows that he
knows that Simon has powerful friends,
his his fighter friend Edbert. He also
knows that Simon has some ghost on his
side. Apparently, I think he has some
artifact, some item, some sort of magic
item that's going to basically be able
to disccorporate the ghost or to deal
with the ghost in some way. So, he's got
it buried somewhere. That's kind of
cool, actually. Is it another cabin in
the woods like in the previous episode?
I doubt that, just because that's boring
to do the same thing over again, isn't
it? So, Chaos Vector 5, I'm going to say
it's very unlikely it's a cabin in the
woods. 07. Look at that. Surprise. In
fact, it is another cabinet in the
woods. I don't think that this this
cabin is very far outside of town. I
think that AR would have stashed his
stuff there to have it easily
accessible. So, I think it's probably
within a mile, which makes perfect sense
because that's how far Simon can go with
his tracking roll. So, it is night.
Simon and Edbert creeping through the
woods and the ghost
creeping through the woods and they come
across this
cabin area here. So, what do you make of
this? I don't know. These are definitely
arms tracks and it goes right to that
doorway.
What do you suppose he's up to in there?
I have no idea, Edbert, but we need to
find out. Let me ask you this, Edbert.
What did an tell you that makes you
think that he knows anything at all
about how we can get back in the temple
of Thuazan? That's an excellent
question. What did Arin tell Edward in
the tavern? Or what did Arn say that
made Edward think, "Oh, wait a minute.
This guy knows something about undead or
magical barriers or who knows what." I
have no idea. Now let's ask the old
event chart here. What does he know?
Change
85
technology.
Change technology.
Okay. So
he has an item and perhaps that item is
even here amongst his stash cuz remember
AR is going back for this secret weapon
to use against the ghost, right? To
neutralize the ghost. So maybe that
secret weapon, whatever it is, is also
the thing that can change the technology
technology that that can basically be
used to bring down the supernatural
barrier that has been erected. Yeah. So
I think it's the same thing. I think
that whatever AR's up to here, I think
that this item can achieve both
purposes. It can neutralize Cherylyn
spirit bane and it can also neutralize a
barrier that that is up around the
temple which means it's a very powerful
item that has power directly over the
powers of the undead and things like
this. It's all it's all connected. You
see it's all connected. I don't know
what that item is yet, but we'll find
out. So, they begin to sneak their way
up. Does Arn know they're coming? Does
he have any reason to suspect he's being
followed? I think it's likely he would
suspect that they would come after him
considering what happened last time. So,
I'm going to call it likely. And does he
suspect? Yes, he does suspect that
people are coming after him. So, I think
that he's kept some sort of watch or
something like that. Maybe even he said
a trap. Who knows? But let's um Yeah,
actually. Has he set a trap? No, cuz I
if if id rolled an extreme yes, then I'd
say yes, he set a trap. But I didn't. I
just rolled a yes. So, he he hasn't set
any traps, but he is wary. He's he's
aware that someone might be coming after
him. So, I think this comes down to
stealth roles. Uh but my question is uh
does um Edbert have stealth? He does.
He's not great at it. He's got a d6.
Simon's much better. Simon says to
Edbert, I think you should stay here for
now, Edbert. Let me go up and scout the
area. See if I can look in the windows.
It's very dark. It should be easy for me
to be quiet as a as a mouse. I'll go up
and see what what I can see. Are you
sure that's a good idea, Simon? You know
the rule, never split the party. It'll
be fine. Trust me. If I've learned one
thing in these past few days, it's that
I do not in fact suck all the time. No,
he doesn't say that. So, you can see
here that there's like a bluff. This
this cabin is situated on a on a on a
like a tiny little cliff face kind of
thing. There's a light there's a light
on in the cabin. Simon does his stealth
roll. Simon's pretty good at this. He's
got a D8. He is going to try and sneak
his way up. So, in Savage Worlds, if
you're sneaking up and your opponent is
wary, he's actively opposing you, which
he is. We've already established that AR
is expecting someone. Then it's going to
be I believe it's oppose rules for
stealth.
Here we go. This is Simon's stealth.
He's rolling five. It's a success. It's
okay. Ar is going to make his opposed
notice roll. Now, Arn is equal to Simon
in pretty much every way. So he has a
notice of D4. So this actually helps us
in this case. And he's also a wild card.
So that was Simon's. He rolled a five.
This is an opposed rule. This is Arn's
notice. Does he notice Simon sneaking up
to him? Five is a tie. Nothing happens.
Means a struggle of will, so to speak.
He's kind of scrabbles a bit on the on
the rock face and a few pebbles going
climbing down. And the light suddenly
flickers and Simon drops to the ground
with his back against the the shale of
the rock, you know, trying to make
himself as as flat as possible as this
light flickers. Edward has Simon's log
bow, so he he's drawn it and he's, you
know, keeping uh keeping through the
trees. He's sort of keeping a bead on
the window cuz he could see that light
flickering around, too. Simon is going
to try and he's going to try it again.
He waits for a few minutes. The lights
in the cabin sort of settle. Maybe a
lantern or whatever that AR had.
Actually, that's a question. This item
that Arin has stashed away, he's got it
hidden in the cabin, but has he buried
it under the floorboards? I kind of like
that idea. I kind of like that idea. I'm
going to call it very likely. Has he
buried in the floor? 66. So, 66 is
doubles, but it's not it's not our case
factor. So, it's no no random event. So,
but the answer is yes. I think Simon can
hear the sound of digging uh and and
planks, floorboards being ripped up and
and cast aside and he hears the sound of
as he's digging in the inside. He's
close enough. We can do this now. The
cabin up at the top of that bluff. So,
Simon prepares
to sneak up once again. Here we go.
Oppose rolls once again. Oh, there we
go. He's rolling 10. That's pretty good.
Arn's notice
is three. So Simon succeeds with a raise
and Arn fails. So Simon completely wins
this contest. Simon creeps up. Quiet.
Quiet. Quiet. And he goes to a window
and he kind of pokes in and the window
is, you know, smoky, sy from years of
fires being burned in the in the hearth
on the inside. But he can sort of peer
through it. You can see a lantern on a
table. Very, very simple cabin, much
like the one that him and Morde stayed
in. all those days ago now, weeks ago.
But he can see there he's he sees a
figure by the flickering lamplight and
it's the back of Arn, but he can see and
Arn is and he's digging. And I think at
this moment, Tonk hits something and he
puts the shovel aside and he digs inside
the hole and he pulls out an item. And
this is the thing that he came here to
get. the thing whose purpose is to put
an end or at least disccorporate,
discombobulate the ghost because the
ghost is an obstacle in AR's way to
bring in Simon, right? What is this
thing?
Ooh, let's go to our fantasy companion
right here. Boop. And let's look at our
treasure tables. Uh, we're going to roll
a d20 on the magic item table cuz it is
definitely a magic item.
18. A scroll. It is a miracle scroll.
So, it's a scroll. It that makes sense.
It's a scroll scribbed by a priest. A
priest. And the purpose of the scroll is
to banish anything to do with the
undead. Obviously, it's a very powerful
scroll because that's what Edward heard
Arn talking about. just in passing he
had mentioned something about undead and
you know the the he happened to be in
possession of this this special scroll
scribed by this this high priest of this
uh temple somewhere back in the city and
so that stuck in Edbert's mind like wait
a minute that scroll might actually be
able to help to bring down the barrier
which the whole reason why he came so it
is this scroll but I think the scroll in
terms of the power it is it's basically
a a very powerful dispel but focused
solely on undead things so solely on the
the powers of necromancy okay and it's a
powerful scroll so I I think it's going
to be a D12. He believes that this
scroll is going to be able to banish the
ghost. I don't think that this scroll is
powerful enough to actually permanently
banish the ghost, but it could certainly
disccorporate the ghost for a long time,
which is interestingly enough something
that Edbert might be interested in doing
because Edward is trying to get rid of
this ghost. So, that's an interesting
twist right there that might come up.
Nonetheless, this scroll is the very
reason why Edbert wanted to find Arin to
get this thing or at least to to get him
to use it on the barrier. Oh, of course
that's why of course that's why Edward
would be interested in this. When he
heard Arn talking about the scroll that
that could actually banish undead, he
was like, "What? Oh, really? What do you
mean by that? Did you mean like like
like someone who's say haunted by a
haunted by a ghost?" You know, of course
he'd be interested in that. And I don't
think in the in the tavern he got a
chance to ask him about something before
they were forced to part company for
whatever reason. That's why he was fresh
in his mind. H interesting. Arin pulls
up the scroll. Simon of course has no
idea what this is. But he did ask Edbert
before on the way there. What was it
that got your attention? I think he
would have told him. Well, actually he
he mentioned something about having some
kind of scroll that could dispel the the
powers of the undead or something like
that. So Simon sees the scroll and ah
there it is. This is clearly the thing.
Is Simon going to try and talk to Arn?
Any kind of communication that Simon has
with Arn is going to suffer the outsider
penalty. So that makes it really
difficult. The the he might just want to
I mean he's going to attack him. I think
he loads that crossbow and he takes a
bead on AR and I think he looks over to
Edbert and he motions him up. So Edbert
now is going to try and stealthily
approach. He's got a d6 the cabin as
well.
Four. So that's a success. But as he
gets close once again up here, I think
that AR who is inside here gets his D4
notice check. Edward succeeded with the
four. So Arn has got to beat the four
and he will
seven. So at that moment AR stands up
turns. Now remember, Simon has got his
crossbow on his back. Arin turns uh but
he can't see Edward coming up because he
could definitely hear something cuz
Edbert comes up and one thing he kind of
scrabbles on the stones as well. Simon
sees this and through the window I think
Simon
he sees Arturn I think Simon basically
smashes open the window with the butt of
the crossbow and he's got he's got Arn
dead to rights. Don't even think about
it. Just put the scroll down. And Aron
turns. He He spins around to see Simon
there. What are you doing here, Simon? I
thought for sure you would have been far
out to see now, taken by the flood.
There was no flood. An Edbert and I
prevented it. A fact that you would know
if you hadn't turned tail and fled. Why
did you leave us at the very height of
the battle? My reasons are my own.
Nonetheless,
if you have saved the town of Hondura,
congratulations, sir. I suppose again,
that would be another thing that he
would clock. Okay, Simon has saved the
town of I know you are not alone out
here. I hear your friend. He's slowly
making his way across the table where
his bow is. And Simon, huh? Keep your
hands where I can see them. Arin kind of
holds his hands up like this. The scroll
in one hand. He knows you're here,
Edbert. You might as well come up. Don't
worry, I've got him covered. Edbert
comes up, scrabbles up the slope, opens
the door. The ghost behind him, I don't
think the ghost is manifesting right
now. Edbert sees the scroll in Arin's
hand. Is that Is that the scroll you
were talking about a few nights back?
W
Yes, this is the scroll. He's kind of
looking around Edward almost like he's
he's waiting for this ghost to manifest
like it did, you know, earlier. Edward,
that is the scroll that we can use to
get inside the temple. Uh, yes, Simon it
is. But uh, well, what are you planning
on doing with that scroll? Iron, here's
the thing.
Edbert really wants to exercise his
ghost. It's a thread that we have here.
Does he think that this scroll could
banish this ghost from his person? Now,
he knows that he's he's here to help
Simon, right? But his real objective was
to banish the ghost. We have an
interesting thing here because Edbert
wants the ghost gone. Arn wants to use
the spell on said ghost in order to
neutralize the ghost to take in Simon.
Simon needs that scroll to break the
barrier on the temple so that he can go
in and find what happened to his father.
H your uh spectral friend.
Is it here?
Is it here? He says it's always here,
Aron. It's always here, surrounding me,
plaguing my every thought, preventing me
from being able to sleep.
Now, answer me a question. That scroll,
will it be able to banish this ghost
from me? Two things happen here. One,
Simon looks at Edbert. What are you
doing, Edbert? I need that scroll to get
in the temple. Edbert just sort of
ignores Simon. Answer the question,
Aaron. If you use that scroll on me,
will it banish the ghost? And Aaron kind
of looks at him, kind of glances over at
Simon in the window with a loaded
crossbow pointed at him. It will do just
that, Edward.
I could free you of that ghost right
now. Don't you dare do it. I will put
this crossbow bolt right through your
heart. I need the power of that scroll
to bring down the barrier at the temple
of Thoran. Do not use it here, Simon.
That scroll if if Aaron here could get
rid of the ghost. There's no reason for
us to go back to the temple. There's no
reason for you to go back to the temple.
But I shall have every reason. Simon,
let Aron do this. Let Aron get rid of
this ghost for me. I will still go back
to the temple with you. And if he does,
I will have no way into that temple. I
know a thing or two about scrolls, and
once he uses the power of that scroll,
it will crumble into dust, rendering it
useless. We bit of a Tarantinoesque
Mexican standoff here, if you will. But
there is sort of a wild card in here,
and that is the ghost. The ghost does
not want to be banished. The ghost wants
to keep Edbert alive. But the ghost does
not want an to use that scroll on Edbert
to banish her. She would much rather
that scroll get used to bring down the
barrier so they can go in and cleanse
that temple cuz don't forget she was the
head of the order of the purifying
flame. Her intrinsic goals are to banish
undead even though she is an undead
herself. We got to ask the chart here.
Does the ghost act against Arn
preventing him? Because I think Arin
sort of looks at Simon, looks back over
at Edbert. Don't you do it, Arn. You can
see Edbert's like salivating. He's so
He's so desperate. He hasn't slept in
weeks. He's so desperate for any chance
any chance to have this ghost banished.
Does he actually ask to use the scroll
right now to banish this ghost? He likes
Simon. He's fought with Simon. I think
it's unlikely he does that. Does he give
Arin the go-ahad to use the scroll right
now? 96. Oh, extreme. No. So Arin is
looking at Edbert. Edbert kind of. And I
think the reason why it's extreme now is
because the ghost starts to swirl around
Edbert, screaming ethereally, screaming
in his not in his ear, in his soul. He
sinks to the ground, clutching his ears.
Oh, the ghost is communicating to him
that this scroll has to be used to bring
down the temple barrier so that she can
get in there and finish the job and
cleanse this whole place. So, he sinks
to his knees. Arin sees this. He's
desperately looking around. Simon with
the loaded crossbow looks. Edward, are
you all right? Is the ghost? Is it the
ghost? At that ghost, the ghost. And I
think that he he begins to read that
scroll because Arin's purpose is to
banish that ghost. So, Simon has to do
something now. Simon has no choice. As
Edward begins to unroll the scroll,
Simon takes the shot. So, does he hit
him? He will hit him. The crossbow
negates one point of armor. So, really,
it's against toughness five. He's
rolling 2d6 versus toughness five. He
rolls five plus one is six versus
toughness. He shakes Arn. So, basically,
he shoots AR. The bolt sinks into Arin's
forearm, which causes him to drop the
scroll. Ah, he's he's shouting in pain.
Meanwhile, the ghost is still swirling
around Edbert. Simon desperately goes to
reload. We have to go to initiative. All
right, here we go. This is Simon first.
Simon acts on seven, Edbert acts on six,
and Arn acts on queen. Arn is shaken.
He's got to do his spirit roll to break
the shaken status. He does, but it takes
his whole round. So he basically snaps
off the bolt and pulls it out and that's
all he can do. Meanwhile, we go down to
Simon. Simon loads the crossbow and
fires again quickly with a minus two
action penalty because he's got to he's
got to he's trying to put AR down so
that AR can't read this damn scroll. So
he goes, "No, you don't." And he and he
fires it again. Five is going to be a So
he does hit. He's going to go 2d6 plus
one versus a tough. Five.
Okay. 7 + 1 is 8
exploder. 8 and five is 13 versus
toughness of five. Oh, two wounds. So
that crossbow bolt takes on right in the
right in the collar bones. And he cries
out in pain. He's going to spend one of
his special NPC tokens to do a soak
roll. And he rolls a success. So he's
going to soak one of the wounds. So he
is wounded once basically.
and everything he does is at minus one.
And then it goes to Edward. Edward is
and I think he he cries out, "All right,
all right, all right. We use the damn
scroll to break down the barrier. Just
stop. Stop." And he's in utter torture,
utter mental agony from the ghost who's
like shrieking into his very soul. And
as soon as Edbert does this, I think his
his whole round is is taken up with
dealing with this ghost. But the ghost
basically like backs off a bit. Now we
go to a new round. Simon is quick, so he
ignores five or less. He's quick. Seven.
Edbert is on the Joker. And Arin is on
six. So Edbert goes first. Edbert has
now been persuaded by his ghost.
Completely cowed, bullied, and
intimidated by his ghost.
You are not using this scroll to get rid
of me. So Edward leaps to the scroll and
goes to snatch it up. I'm going to give
him a dexterity check to see if he can
snatch the scroll. Dexterity. What are
we playing, Dante? His agility is D6. If
he gets a success, I'm going to say he
grabs it. If he gets a success with the
rays, we're going to say that he it's
part of his movement and he can he can
act. Uh, so it's a success. So he leaps
in and grabs the scroll and basically
just kind of steps back to the door and
says, "That's enough, Ern. That's
enough. Now just stand down. Stand down
or I'll destroy this thing right now.
The ghost. The ghost. He said, "No, no,
I didn't mean that. I didn't mean that."
That is enough. Ern, don't make me kill
you. You are not my enemy. Contrary to
everything you have done here today. I'm
taking that scroll and I'm using it to
bring down the barrier. I'm going to
make this an intimidate check, but I'm
going to give Simon a plus4. Simon does
again does not have the intimidate
skill, but I'm giving him a plus4
because considering that he Arin is once
again outnumbered, wounded, and there's
this ghost who's back in the room. I'm
going to give Simon a plus4 on this. Uh,
it's actually a plus two because he
doesn't have the skill. So, seven.
That's a success. Ar blood pouring down
from his wound. He's got this crossbow
bolt sticking out of his neck. He looks
to Simon. Very well, take the damn
scroll.
Just leave me be. Oh, no, no, no. I
don't think so. An too long have you
dogged my steps through these lands. I
am not going to just let you go so that
you could come after me again at your
own leisure. No, my friend. You are
coming with us and you are going to help
us. You are going to help us get in that
temple and you are going to help me find
out what happened to my father. And Arn
already being intimidated kind of looks
at him.
Very well, Simon.
Just get this damned crossbow out of my
neck. And that is where we will end the
scene. Woo! They tracked Arn to Cabin.
He has dispel scroll versus undead. He's
been coerced, not persuaded, coerced
into going with them to the temple. Just
to sort of take care of this quickly,
I'm going to have Simon do a heal test.
He will explode with the four and he
explode. He will do very well with this.
So, basically, he is able to heal Arn of
that wound. So, when they start the next
scene, I think the chaos factor is going
to go up to six. Yeah. So, I think that
what happens is Edward is going to
insist that they tie Arn up cuz he does
not trust him. Neither does Simon. I
think they're going to tie Aron up in
the night and then basically lead him to
the temple the next day, which is not
that far. It's a it's a full day's walk,
but they can get there by the end of the
night. So, we're going to start the next
scene by having rested. Now, they make
for the temple with Arn and the scroll.
And that is where we're going to pick up
the next scene next time on Me myself
and I. And once again, if you enjoy the
show today or you enjoy the show at all
and want to help support the show, by
all means, hit like and subscribe. And
if you want to check out the merchandise
linked in the comment section, that
would be great, too. Uh, thanks so much
for watching, and we will see you next
time on Me, Myself, and Die.
Well, hello and welcome once again back
to Me, Myself, and Die. I am, as always,
your intrepid game master, host, and
player, Trevor Deval. When last we left
Simon of Argistan and friends, he had
tracked down Arn from the now saved town
of Hundtorra and discovered that Arn had
been in possession of a scroll, a
special scroll that could dispel things
with undead powers, such as the barrier
around the temple of Thuran, or the
ghost of Cherylyn Spirit Bane, who is
currently haunting Edbert and who Edbert
desperately wants to rid himself of. It
was a bit of a Mexican standoff, if you
will, towards the end of the last
episode where Arn and Edbert and Simon
were all sort of poised around this
scroll. And Edward wanted Arn to use it
on the ghost. And Arn wanted to do that,
too, cuz he was trying to get rid of the
ghost to neutralize Simon's allies. But
of course, Simon knew that he needed
that scroll in order to get into the
temple. So, the ghost intervened and
basically flooded Edbert's mind with all
kinds of horrible things. in Simon and
Edbert and Cherylyn. The ghost had uh
managed to convince Arn to intimidate
him by shooting him in the throat and
then and then healing the wound, but
convinced him to come with them to the
temple of Thuran to use the scroll and
bring down the barrier, allowing Simon
to get back in and find hopefully what
happened to his father. But before we
get to the episode proper, there's a
couple things I want to just talk about.
Uh, there was a friend of mine who
didn't quite understand how the Benny
thing works. So, I know those of you who
understand Savage Worlds, this will be a
no-brainer. But for those of you who
don't, just so you know, at the
beginning of every session, I give
myself three bennies. Three bennies for
Simon, three bennies for the NPCs,
basically as they use them, that's
pretty much it. But the bennies get
replenished at the beginning of every
session or at the beginning of every
episode. So, that's the reason why at
the beginning of every episode, Simon
always has three bennies again. So,
Andy, that one's for you. Uh, the other
thing here is that we did manage to
level up. Yay. Yes, we level up our
characters, which includes Simon,
Edbert, and the ghost as well. She does
get a an advance as well. So, uh, very
briefly, just so you know, just so
you're not going, "Wait a minute, Simon
doesn't roll those dice." So, for his
advance, he he upped his survival and
his tracking. So, both those skills are
now at D8 instead of D6. Edbert also had
his advance. He took the Bronny Edge,
which gives him plus one to his
toughness and also increases his
carrying capacity. So, he's going to be
much harder to wound now because he's
he's a little tougher. And for the
ghost, Cherylyn Spirit Bane, she uh took
what I thought was was an extremely
applicable advance. She took the puppet
power, which is a power in Savage Worlds
that allows you, it's like a spell, but
it allows you to take over someone
else's body and inhabit them. And I
thought that was a perfect thing for a
ghost to have. So, I'm not calling it
puppet. I'm calling it possession
because again, that makes sense that a
ghost would have the possession power.
So, that is how we leveled up everybody.
One more thing, too, before we begin
that I want to go over just to kind of
keep you guys in the loop and and sort
of share where I'm at in terms of my
chicken scratch organization here. As
you can see, I I make rather copious and
rather illeible notes uh during the
course of the game just so I can keep up
with what's going on. So, just to let
you know, we do have a list of
characters on our character list here.
And these things, of course, do come up
every now and then. They've come up in
the past. I just want to read off who we
have just to kind of refresh you of the
cast of characters that do exist so far.
So one, and these are in no particular
order. There's Dench, the orc chieftain.
There's Mor, Simon's orc friend. There's
Arn, the bounty hunter, who is a um a
wild card to himself. There's Manford of
Doved, Simon's enemy from back in the
city of Kitan. There's the Order of the
Purifying Flame, who may be making an
appearance today. We shall see. Uh there
is Cherylyn spirit bane the ghost that
is currently haunting Edbert and there
is the or there rather are the priests
of Morgus the sea god. There were the
cultists of Deona as well but they've
been neutralized for the moment. So you
know they still exist out in the world
but for the moment they're basically
scratched off the list cuz they're all
dead. We also have a number of threads
that we're following. So just to recap
these but again these are in no
particular order. The most pressing
thread I think is get past the temple
barrier and search for Simon's father.
And this is what they're going to be
trying to do today hopefully uh to use
that scroll to see if they can bring
down that barrier to get back in the
temple of Thoran. There's also the
threat of the minor miracle from Simon's
background that's never come up. Another
threat is Arin is hunting Simon from
Manfred. Remember he's still got a job
to do. He's still trying to bring Simon
back to Kitan to deliver him to Manford
for crimes that Manfred believes Simon
is responsible for even though Arn
himself is not so sure that that Simon
is guilty anymore because of what's
happened over the past few episodes.
Exercise Edbert's ghost. That's
something that Edbert wants to do. But
at the same time, Cheryl and Spirit
Bane, the ghost, wants Edward to atone
for the crime of, you know, killing her.
And so, she's trying to keep him alive.
So, those are our active threads. Never
know which ones are going to come up or
become important or applicable during
the session. Uh, our chaos factor is at
six, so it's gone up a bit. So, we are
going to begin
the scene, which is scene two of act
two, if you want to call it. Our
characters are rested. They've rested in
the in the woodsman's cabin that night.
Simon had healed the wound to Arin's
throat. So, he's fine. Everybody's fine.
We're all just fine here. And they are
making their way back to the temple of
Thuan with Arn, you know, his his hands
tied. Uh because neither of neither
Simon nor Edward actually trust him. But
they're bringing him sort of as their
prisoner to the temple of Thuran so that
he or someone can use that scroll to try
and bring down the barrier. The first
question I have is do they make it to
the temple? Does anything befall them or
interrupt them or alter them? So, our
chaos factor is uh at six. So, I'm going
to roll the d10. And if we get six or
less, then something changes. Four.
Okay. So, we do have interrupt scene.
Something interrupts them. Of course, it
does. They can't ever just get to where
they're going without any incident. What
fun would that be? So, they are on their
way to the temple of Thoran. What
interrupts them? It's I We already know
it's going to take them a full day to
get there. This is a random event. So,
the first thing we're going to do is
roll our event focus. 55. Close a
thread. Hm. I'm glad I actually listed
the threads. That doesn't make sense.
Close a thread means that this random
event is so important. It actually
closes an open thread. There's multiple
threads. We're going to randomly
determine which thread gets closed. H.
So, whatever happens here, a thread is
going to be resolved because of it. And
closed ended. Well, this this sounds uh
epic. Let's determine which thread gets
closed. Three. Arn is hunting Simon for
Manfred. That is the thread that gets
closed. How does it get closed? Event
meaning
70. Extravagance.
Subject
56.
Wishes. The thread gets closed. Arn is
hunting Simon for Manfred. Now that he's
seen enough evidence of Simon's
character, he's going to, for some
reason, extravagance of wishes, he's
going to he's going to basically give up
his his contract on Simon. He's going to
decide he's not going to continue
hunting Simon for Manfred. What Manfred
wants is so the extravagance of wishes.
He wants Simon to come in for these
crimes that Arn does not believe that
Simon is responsible for. So I think I
think that as they're moving towards the
temple as they're as they're traveling
through the forest aren't tied up. Let's
determine what the weather is doing.
Just the higher the better on a D24.
It's pouring rain. It's pouring rain.
Trudging through the wet, muddy, sping
wet ground of the of the forest.
Tripping a bit on the underbrush. that
kind of stuff. As they're as they're
going through the woods and they're
going up to the slopes of the mountains
to get back to the temple of Thoran,
they they take a rest. You know, this is
around noon, so they basically they've
been on the road all morning. And uh
Simon, you know, he he pulls out his
rations. He begins to eat. And and I
think without even thinking about it, he
just pulls off a fairly significant
portion of rations and hands it to. And
Arn looks at him and says, "I will have
difficulty eating that like this." Nice,
Troy. We're not going to be untying you.
Not for any reason. I think Simon
actually intervenes here and he says,
"No, Edbert, I do not believe that there
is any reason to keep Anbound any
further. He has given us his word that
he will help and I, for one, am willing
to accept that."
I must admit, Simon, this is unusual
behavior.
I thought for sure that I would be bound
all the way up until you were ready to
discard me for whatever nefarious
purpose you have. My mother has already
fallen to evil powers. I want to ensure
that if the same has happened to my
father that I am able to put him at
rest. So you see an my purposes are not
nefarious. I am not the monster that
Manfred of Dovedane has made me out to
be. And I hope that after everything we
have been through, but you can now see
that. Now, I know you have to do
whatever you have to do to try and bring
me in, and I will resist you, of course,
but I want you to know manto man right
now.
I am not guilty as Simon cuts his cuts
his bonds instead of Rod's dresses.
Do you know Simon?
If you had said this to me even one day
ago, I would not have believed you.
But over the past few weeks, I have seen
much evidence that you in fact are not
the criminal that Manfred wants me to
believe you are. The creature, the orc
lord, spoke highly of you. He said you
saved his life when you did not have to.
I did what I can for someone who shared
my purpose. There was nothing
particularly noble about it. And then
you saved my life in the town when it
was under attack. That was more my
actually. Yes, I know. But it was Simon
here who came when he could have left me
to die. And then to top it all off, when
Hundtorra was facing its darkest moment,
when the great tidal wave of Deona was
about to engulf the town, instead of
fleeing, which I chose to do to save my
own skin,
you did not. You turned and you fled
towards the danger. You saved the town
and did not even stick around for the
accolades. Again, Anne, you do me too
much honor in this. I left the town
looking for you, Anne, because you were
of use to me. Do not bestow too much
nobility on me. I am, like you, merely
pursuing my own agenda. Yes, but your
agenda has consistently from the
beginning focused on helping others
instead of helping yourself. And
although those others did wind up
helping you, it was your generosity of
spirit and your compassion and your
sense of duty that shows to me that
Manfred of Dovedane must be entirely
mistaken.
I have come to a decision. I will
renounce the contract that Manfred has
taken out on you. I will not continue to
try and bring you back to him.
I renounce the contract and I renounce
Manfred's accusations of you. Does he go
one further? Does he actually decide to
go with Simon voluntarily? Well, let's
see. Maybe. I'm going to say it's um I'm
going to say it's likely cuz you know
he's made a good case here. 28. That is
a yes.
And what's more, if your purpose is to
put your father's spirit to rest, then I
will help you and do what I can in that
endeavor. Well, this is an unexpected
turn. Indeed, it is, Simon. Quite
unexpected. One might say that randomly
determined. Well, I'm not sure what you
mean by that, Ed, but but nonetheless,
an I accept your pledge and I accept
your help. Together, then we go forward
together.
Together. Well, that thread has been
closed. Oh, that's kind of huge,
actually. Arn is no longer hunting
Simon. Wow. Interesting. Okay, that's
what happens when you roll close a
thread. Boop. It just resolved like
that. And the chaos factor is going to
go back down to five because, you know,
our guys were were pretty much in
control that whole time. Well, we go on
to the new scene now. And the setup is
the same as before. Uh they finished
their lunch. They're in the woods and
they're they're proceeding towards the
temple of Thuran. At the top of the
scene, once again, we determine whether
it gets interrupted or altered. Chaos
factor is now five though at the top of
scene three. One. So one means it does
get altered. I'm thinking, is it
environmental? Does something does
something environmental happen where
where you know it's raining. It is
pouring rain. We know that. So, is there
a landslide or a flash flood? Oh, this
from my friend Ian. Flash flood, baby.
Yeah, it's got to be a flash flood. So,
they are making their way through the
mud soaked rain soden rocky undergrowth
of this forest that's clinging to the
side of this slate gray mountain. Rain
pouring down. And all of a sudden,
there's this rumbling sound as a bunch
of rocks begin to come down towards
them. Who's in front? It's probably
going to be Simon in front. He he kind
of looks up and he sees a cascade of
rocks coming down towards him when out
of nowhere in a roaring deluge, a
massive gout of water appears at the top
of the ridge and begins to tumble and
cascade its way down towards them. Simon
looks up and he points and he turns back
to his comrades behind him and he
shouts, "Get out of the way. Flash
flood. The water roars down the slope
towards them. Simon tries to dive out of
the way. Everybody tries to dive out of
the way. They're covered in mud. They're
kind of halfway up this slope. It it's
it's quite steep. And they have got to
try and get out of the way of this flash
flood. Immediately, Simon looks at the
the the closest thing beside him, which
is going to be like a tree, right? Is
there enough cover around them? Is there
enough foliage around them? like like a
big thick tree trunk or something they
can wrap around and and you know try and
keep themselves braced against the
oncoming deluge. I'm going to roll once
for each of these guys. They are in a
forest, right? It's a thick forest.
They're up a they're on the side of a
rocky slope, though. So, you don't tend
to get a lot of really thick trees
growing up the side of a rocky slope.
So, I'm going to say it's probably
unlikely that there is something decent
for them to grab onto. This only gives a
35% chance of a yes answer. Unlikely.
There's Simon. No, there's nothing for
Simon to grab onto. Just put these guys
in some sort of marching order. Let's
say uh Edward is next with a ghost.
Ghost isn't going to have to worry about
a flash flood. The ghost will be fine.
And finally, AR behind her. So, Simon is
desperately looking around for something
to grab onto, but the only trees thick
enough to like to secure an anchor point
to are, you know, off the slope a little
bit. He's going to have to make a very
difficult roll to try and get to it.
What about uh Edbert behind him? Is
there anything near Edbert with a 35?
Oh, bang. Right on the money. There is
something for Edbert to be able to grab.
So he ah he he grabs onto a massive
thick tree that happens to be sort of
growing sort of crookedly out of the
side of the rock face. And he wraps his
arms around it holding on for dear life.
Meanwhile, what happens with Arn back
here 58. There's nothing for Arn either.
So the only sort of significant tree is
boom is right beside is right beside
Edbert there. Edbert grabs onto it.
Meanwhile, over here, the only, you
know, trees available available for
Simon is sort of a little further off
here. And same thing for Arn sort of
like uh further off here
as this is, you know, you sort of
imagine this as kind of like a a slope
that goes up, right? Edbert is actually
going to be okay. He's going to grab
onto that tree and as the water begins
to cascade and flood its way down. Oh,
bad flash floods, man. They're terrible.
Simon is going to have to make he's got
to get to this tree over here. Oh boy.
How's he going to do that? Well, he's
going to have to make a roll. Obviously,
this is a climbing roll. Now, I believe
in the new edition, they've sort of
merged climbing and swimming into one
athletic skill, which is a really good
idea. I'm doing pretty much bog standard
Savage Rolls Deluxe Edition. So, uh you
know, that means that uh yes, you get to
roll criticals with a Benny.
I mean, believe me, Simon's life is hard
enough without implementing that rule.
Climbing is still a skill in this
version of the game and he's going to
roll it now. Luckily, Simon does have
it. He's only a D4 because who puts
points into climbing? Who indeed as he
tries to scramble his way up this rocky
slope to get to this tree before the
flash flood hits him. And five, he will
succeed. So, he managed to launches
himself over here and latches on to the
tree as the waters coming down here. Uh,
and Arn. Now, Arn again, as we've said,
is pretty much Simon's equal. So, we're
going to also give him a D4 climbing. I
haven't stated him up with a proper
sheet yet because it hasn't really been
necessary, but now that he's pledged his
cause to Simons, I'm going to have to do
that, but that'll have to wait until
probably next episode. So, going to
remember though, he has a climbing of
D4. Does he do it? Oh, no, he does not
do it. Oh, no. Uh, so I think he's going
to have to spend a Benny. He's going to
have to spend one of our NPC bennies to
try and reroll this because this is kind
of important. Here we go. Four. Okay.
So, he manages to climb his way very
quickly, leaping from rock to rock over
to that tree as well and grab onto it as
the water comes cascading down,
buffeting them, enveloping them,
threatening to tear them off the tree.
And if if they hadn't got to those
trees, they would have been swept away
down the side of the mountain. But they
did make it. Cost Arabic to do it, but
they did make it. And the flash flood
eventually recedes, leaving them
exhausted, sping wet, and you know,
cold, the whole bit. Just very, very
pleasant out here. John, the little
stroll up to the uh uh necromancer's
temple. Okay. Well, that's that scene.
But they survived. Survival is good. We
like survival. Survival's good. We like
survival. No character list changes, no
threat uh thread changes, but the chaos
factor does go back up to six because
this was whoa out of their control. So,
we move on to scene four now. Same
setup. They're trying to get to the damn
temple.
And chaos factor six. We're rolling our
d10 here. Six or less. Something
happens. Eight. Finally. So, nothing
interrupts them.
It is nightfall when they arrive to the
temple of Thurzan. They are still kind
of wet cuz it's still pouring rain and
you know, having survived this flash
flood of the mountains, they're they're
really exhausted. They're super tired.
In fact, I'm automatically going to give
them a level of fatigue. And and a level
of fatigue means that they're minus one
to everything they do. When they finally
get to the temple of Thurzan, there it
is. It's still the way it was. It was
left, I think. Well, maybe it's not.
We'll find out. This massive sort of
rectangular building built into the side
of the mountain, I think was the
description of it. I don't remember.
Nonetheless, here's my first question.
We determined a few episodes ago that
the Order of the Purifying Flame was
nowhere near the temple, but that was a
few days ago. We know that they're on
their way. I guess my question is right
now, are they here? Because they were so
far away. I believe it was an extreme no
we rolled when I asked that back way way
way back in those in that older episode.
Actually, I'm going to say it's very
unlikely. It's very unlikely that the
Order of the Purifying Flame is here,
which gives us a 45% chance of a yes.
And the answer is 89. They are not here.
So when Simon and his friends show up
exhausted, completely drenched,
fatigued, they see they can still see
this sort of like dark shimmer that's
shimmering over the the main double door
exit or entry of the of the temple. At
this point, Simon sort of, you know, he
sort of collapses on the ground,
catching his breath a little bit. So,
I'm gonna say that they need to rest
because they've been on the road all
day. They've had a harrowing couple of
days as well. They've survived a flash
flood and they're here now alone in
front of the temple, but they're too
exhausted to go in. And I think that
Simon says we cannot go in in this
condition. I think we should set a camp
here and rest and uh try in the morning
until this damnable rain passes at
least. So they set camp outside the
temple. Does anything happen in the
night to interrupt their rest
outside this temple? It's possible. I
have no idea what I'm just going to go
back to the old fate chart. I mean,
there's a number of ways I could do
this. I could look at random encounter
tables for various environments from
various supplements. I could do that,
but I'm just going to keep it simple
right now and just use a fate chart. Are
they interrupted with an encounter in
the night? I'm going to call it 50/50 in
this case. Actually, you know what? This
is an undead temple. We know nothing's
coming out of the temple because they
the the thing the powers inside have
sealed it. So, I don't think that
there's going to be any danger of like
wandering monsters from the temple
coming out to, you know, butcher them in
their sleep. But it's possible that
there is something from the outside that
comes in like some kind of creature or
baddy kind of blunders along. But again,
I think any animals would be staying
away from this place. They'd be too
spooked by this thing. I think anything
with intelligence would be staying away
from this place, unless of course it's
the order of the purifying flame. Uh I'm
going to call it um I'm going to call it
very unlikely that something uh disturbs
them in the rest. This is a 45% chance.
And of course it does. So something does
in fact. It's not an extreme yes, but it
is a yes. Something disturbs them in
their rest. Is it a combat encounter?
I'm not necessarily sure. I'm just going
to roll the event meaning. What disturbs
them? What is it that disturbs them in
in the night? 64. Spy. Oo, I like this
already, don't I? 01. Spy of goals. Oh
my god, this is great. So, something is
spying on them in the night and whoever
is on watch has a chance to to catch
them. Something spy of goals. Spy goals.
Yeah, you know what? I think I'm wrong.
I think some power in the temple is
aware of their presence and I think that
it's sent out some kind of spy that
might not necessarily be a physical
being like they send out a skeleton to
look at them or something but it could
be some sort of like magic wizard eye or
something that's being cast and who
knows but the point is something is
spying on them before they can get
inside this temple. Who notices it? Who
is on watch when this happens? I'm just
going to call it equal on a d6. 1 to2
it's going to be AR. 3 to four is going
to be Simon and 5 to six beert. In fact,
it is Edbert who is on watch at this
time at their camp outside the temple
doors. Does Edbert notice it? Whatever
it is. Well, Edbert has a funny little
skill called notice. It's not great.
Does he notice the spy from the temple?
Let's find out. Oh, he explodes with an
11. That is the success with rays, my
friends. He definitely notices the spy
from the temple. Well, here's a
question. Is it a corporeal being? I
really don't think so. I don't think
that they're going to send an actual
member of their undead beings of their
little undead army. Undead army.
I don't think they're going to send a a
a being, a person, so to speak, out
there. So, I think there's no way.
There's no way they send an actual
being. And 41 is an answer is a no. No,
it is not. Which means it is in fact
some sort of magical scrying ability. So
the power that is in control of the
temple has cast some sort of like
wizardy kind of spell or something. Some
sort of power that allows them to see
some sort of aacular device. That's the
second time this concept of a device has
come up with relation to the temple. I
think there might be something there.
I'm just going to make a little note of
that. Actually, what the hell is just
let's just call it that. An eracular
device inside the temple is being used
by the temple's leader. We'll just call
it. What form does this scrying device
take? Is it some sort of like withered
undead magical floating eye? That's
pretty cool. Let's call it um somewhat
likely
00 extreme. No, it is okay. I roll a lot
of I roll a lot of I roll a lot of 100s
in uh in this in this show. It's it's
bizarre. My dice are never that
punishing in real life. It is definitely
not an eye. So it's it that tells me
that it it's the device that this this
intelligence is using is not sight
based. Oh, it's soulbased. It's
basically searching for living souls.
That's cool. What would that look like?
I think it's going to take the form of
like a shimmering like a darkly
shimmering humanoid almost like a ghost,
right? So, because this is Edbert's
watch, Cherylyn is up. She doesn't
sleep. She's a ghost. But she is going
to notice as well cuz so did Edbert.
This sort of shim. Oh, actually, you
know what? Because it's not an eye and
because it's not visible, I'm also going
to interpret that 100 that extreme note
to mean that it is totally invisible. So
Edbert is aware of something, but he
just sort of gets this shivering in his
soul kind of thing, but he can't see
anything cuz there's nothing to say.
There's nothing to see. It's totally
invisible. But I think that as Edbert
gets this kind of shivering, he sort of
assumes it's Cherylyn because this is
the same kind of thing that happens to
him all the time with Cherylyn. And he
kind of he kind of looks around and he
says, "Ah, curse you, ghost. Would you
please just leave me in peace for once?
I really really could use some sleep
before we go into that temple. And
Cherylyn the ghost sort of appears
before him. I think Edward is always
aware of the ghost. He doesn't
necessarily always see her perhaps, but
he is always aware of her presence, but
she does sort of appear to him and she
sort of looks and she shakes her head
and she points at the forest, the
blackness of the forest beyond uh
illuminated only by the dim flicker of
campfire that he's been tending uh on
his watch. And he looks and he sees and
he say she says I what what are you
pointing at ghost? I don't see a thing.
And Cherylyn is seeing she can see this
spec. She can sense this spectral force
which is tracking their souls basically.
What's interesting now Cherylyn is a
ghost. She is like a pure soul. She's an
she's an uprooted soul. She's a an
unanchored soul if you will. So this
power is very much aware of her as well
as the rest of the three living men
around the campfire. But this force is
just spying. Remember, it's not here to
attack. It's just spying, but it sees it
sees the sleeping Simon. It it senses, I
should say, it doesn't see it senses the
sleeping Simon. It senses the sleeping
ar and it also senses the awake uh
Edbert who is now sort of looking around
frantically in its general direction.
And it definitely senses Cherylyn as
well. Now, here's a question. Cherylyn
was responsible for putting down the
mummy, which was of course Simon's
mummy, his mother. This intelligence,
does it recognize Cherylyn for what she
is? Not only the being that ended the
mummy, which was a very powerful
creature in that temple, but does it
recognize Cherylyn as the ex leader of
the order of the purifying flame? I'm
going to say 50/50. Okay, let's back to
six. On to 39. It does recognize. And at
that moment, I think the leader of the
temple knows that it's in trouble
because remember, it put up that barrier
to protect itself from the oncoming
order of the purifying flame. Cherylyn,
her soul, her whole purpose was to lead
that order. And this is a soul scrying
device. So, it sees exactly what is in
your soul. And her soul is pure. Her
soul is purely about ending this undead
scourge. So, I think that this thing is
now on high alert because it sees that
that Cherylyn is there and that she is
the greatest threat to this thing. Does
it sense the scroll in Orange's
possession? H I think it's a little
offput by Cherylyn's presence. I don't
think it's necessarily going to be able
to detect that scroll, but it's
possible. I'm going to call it uh
unlikely. It's possible. Does it
recogni? It does not. So, it is unaware
of the scroll, but it is still it is
still very very uh focused on Cherylyn.
Does it launch any kind of attack on
her? Now, I know he was here to spy, but
now it's seen Cherylyn and recognized
her for what she is and the threat that
she represents. Does it launch some sort
of spectral attack on Cherylyn to try
and get rid of her somehow? I think
that's likely. I think it absolutely
does. 58 is a yes. It launches a
spectral attack on Cherylyn. I don't
know what this looks like. In fact, it
doesn't look like anything because the
only one that can see anything at all is
Edbert and he's sort of like looking at
the woods. To him, there's nothing going
on. He sees his ghost sort of like
pointing and he's looking. He draws his
weapons and I think maybe he moves
carefully over to the to the edge of the
of the woods to, you know, uh see if
there's anything there. Here's a
question. Does Does Ed is he even aware
of this sort of supernatural uh attack
on on Cherylyn? I think it's probably
very unlikely. Um 67. No. So he So
basically Cherylyn vanishes from view
and he's like, "Where'd you go? Where'd
you go? What's going on?" But she's
still there as she gets assaulted by the
spectral attack. What form does that
take? Well, the undead leader in the
temple obviously has the ability to
control undead. So, here's what we're
going to do. I think that basically the
attack is going to be the same kind of
possession that Cherylyn has now uh got
by by leveling up, so to speak. So, this
is going to be a poss. This is going to
be a puppet spell. Puppet. Puppet puppet
a puppet spell. Oppose role of the
character's arcane skill versus the
target spirit. Must uh score success and
beat the target's role to gain complete
control. Her spirit is Oh, it's a it's a
10. It's a d10. So, here's what we're
going to do. We're going to determine
the overall power level of the leader of
the temple as opposed to Cherylyn. Okay.
So, we're going to go to Un. So, here we
go. The what is the 87 which means
slightly stronger. Okay. So that means
that the overall power level of the
leader of the temple is going to be D12.
Okay. Versus her spirit of D10. So this
spectral attack comes in this attempt to
possess Cherylyn herself and to take
control of her. The attack comes in with
a d12 seven. She must resist using her
spirit of a d10. Now remember this seven
is a success. So it's definitely going
to it's going to succeed. The spell is
going to succeed, but it has to beat her
role in order to possess her. She rolls
a six which means that the leader of the
temple takes control of Cherylyn. The
victim will attack friends even commit
suicide though such acts allow the
victim and other opposed spirit role to
break the spell. Cherylyn has been
possessed by the undead intelligence
that is leading the temple. She is
utterly in its control for a few rounds.
What is she going to do? Is the
intelligence is the leader of the temple
going to use her to attack her living
friends? I think that's probably a yes.
But you know what? Let's save that till
next time and leave it on a good
oldfashioned cliffhanger. If you like
the show, don't forget to please
subscribe and share and talk about the
show. There's lots of changes coming to
YouTube in the next few weeks actually.
And it really, really, really is crucial
that we get the word out about the show
to get as many subscribers and likes and
shares and views as possible to let
YouTube know that this is actually a
viable concern and it's a going concern
and it's it's a show that you guys want
to keep watching because they could
theoretically decide, oh, you know what,
it's no longer financially viable,
whatever that means, and that'd be the
end of the show. So, let's make sure
that doesn't happen. Hit like and
subscribe and share and and leave a
comment if you like the show. And thanks
so much for watching, and we will see
you again next time on the next episode
of Me, Myself, and Die.
Hey everyone, welcome back to Me,
Myself, and I. I am, as always, your
intrepid game master host and player,
Trevor Deval. Thanks so much for
watching, and as always, don't forget to
hit like and subscribe and share the
video around if you can. We're almost up
to 1,000 subscribers at this point, and
that is pretty cool. So, thanks so much
for continuing to come back and watch
the wacky adventures of Simon and
friends. And speaking of Simon, when
last we left him, he and his friends had
arrived at the temple of Thuran, which
was still under the protective barrier
that was enacted by the undead ritual of
several episodes ago. Arn is now working
with them. Arin has sworn his bow to the
service of Simon as of last episode and
has abandoned the contract on Simon,
having come to realize that perhaps
Simon is not the monster that Manford of
Dove Dane back in the city of Kitan
thinks he is. And so Simon has uh turned
an enemy into an ally, which is a very
useful thing. When they arrived at the
temple, having survived a flash flood
that came out of nowhere, they discover,
or rather Edbert discovered, or rather
Cherylyn the ghost discovered that they
were being spied upon by a presence, an
intelligence from inside the temple.
This is the leader of the temple. We
still don't know anything about the
leader of the temple. We still don't
know who or what is behind this. We know
nothing about that. But we do know that
this intelligence had manifested in
front of them invisibly. Cherylyn could
see this thing. This thing I'm just
representing right here as sort of like
this shadow demon thing. But uh it's
invisible to everybody except for
Cherylyn. It was spying upon the group
and it immediately noticed that Cherylyn
was of course the one that destroyed the
mummy which was Simon's mother back in
the temple some episodes ago. It did not
however sense the presence of Arn's
scroll. the scroll that can possibly
dispel the barrier and bring down the
magical wall and allow Simon and company
to enter the temple. So when last we
left off, the presence having recognized
Cherylyn as the big threat here had
actually engaged into a magical battle
of wills with her and beat her and has
briefly possessed her but only for a few
moments because Cherylyn has the
opportunity to try and break out of it.
Uh and it's very difficult for this
intelligence to continue manifesting
that spell across the barrier like
through the the magical barrier that uh
is separating them right now. So as it
stands right now, Arn and Simon are both
still asleep. Edbert had moved over to
the edge where he, you know, he he was
looking out at the forest having sensed
this presence in the woods. Cherylyn
immediately noticed what was going on,
came over here, gotten involved in a
battle of wills, and was possessed. So
right now, Cherylyn is currently
possessed by the power that controls
this temple. My question is, what does
this intelligence want? See, if the
intelligence knew about the scroll, then
it would want to destroy that scroll,
but it has not sensed the scroll. We
discovered that last time. We should go
through the motions here and actually
see if this scene, this opening scene,
which is Cherylyn is possessed and is
possibly about to attack her friends,
whether that scene is altered or
interrupted with something. So, let's
find out. We roll at E10. Chaos vector
six or less. If it's six or less, the
scene changes. Five. Okay. So, what we
have here, an altered scene. Well, I
think what that means is Cherylyn was
about to attack Edbert because she's
possessed by this leader of the the
temple to alter the scene. She doesn't
attack Edbert outright. And I think the
reason why is because the the leader of
the temple doesn't want to give away his
cards just yet. is it's I'm not even
again I have no idea what this leader of
the temple is. So the leader of the
temple does not want to give away its
cards but it only has a few moments to
act. So I think that the ghost of
Sherlin goes over here and begins to
just sort of search the campground for
any threats to its existence. Right. And
I think as well that the reason why the
leader of the temple was unable to sense
the scroll that Arin has is because it
its range of perception was limited
because it's working past this magical
barrier. But now that it's in possession
of Cherylyn's senses, I think there's a
good chance that it might actually be
able to reach out with her senses and
sense that scroll. So much so that I am
going to make that a likely outcome.
Does she it the the leader of the temple
through Cherylyn does she sense the
scroll? I think that is likely. This
gives us an 85% chance of success. Here
we go. 48. So she does in fact I should
keep saying she it. The leader of the
temple does in fact sense the scroll on
AR. So it goes over here. The question
now is Edbert who is always aware of the
ghost. He's always aware of Cherylyn. My
question is, does Edbert sense the
change in Cherylyn? Because he's pretty
connected to her, even though he doesn't
want to be. Does he sense that something
is off?
H somewhat likely. Chaos Factor 6 25.
That is a yes answer. Edbert suddenly
kind of softens for a second. Yeah, for
a second. this guy who's been haunted
and tormented by this ghost for weeks,
months, we're not even sure. He hasn't
slept in a very, very long time. For
just a second, I think Edward has just a
hint of relief. Just a hint of relief as
the ghost's influence over him is just
for a moment gone. And that tips him
off. Something is wrong. And he kind of
looks around and
Cherylyn,
Cherylyn, where are you? Because
remember, he can't see her. He can sense
her.
He moves over. Cherylyn. Cherylyn. I
think that is going to wake these two
up. Does Edbert's vocalizations of the
Does that wake AR up and uh Simon up
before the ghost can act?
I don't know. I'm going to call that
50/50.
Does Edward wake them up before the
ghost can act? 92. He does not. So, he's
whispering. Sharon. Sharon, are you
there? Why? Why can't I feel you? What's
What's wrong? What's going on?
At that moment, Cherylyn, or rather the
evil intelligence of the temple, begins
to do a notice roll. We'll say a notice
roll. What is the notice roll of the
thing? And yeah, we'll call it a d8. If
this temple presence rolls a success
here, which is four or more, it will
sense the presence of that scroll. Here
we go.
It does. It comes over here. And I think
at that moment because this thing, which
is in fact the real presence in
possession of Cherylyn, realizes the
danger. I think Cherylyn manifests
physically. And of course, Edward can
see her now. And he knows something is
odd with her. So maybe she looks
different to him. Maybe she's got like
like weird streaks of like black veins
running down her face, you know, like
some sort of weird visual evidence of
spiritual possession. That's kind of
cool, actually. So he sees this
Cherylyn and Cherylyn's ghost goes over
to Arin and begins to grab for that
scroll. Edbert sees this and I think he
just yell wake up. Bang. Obviously
everyone is they snap awake to this.
Arin looks up. He sees he sees this
ghost who he has seen before, but this
time she as I said, she's got these
black veins of like spiritual possession
in her and she's she's manifesting in
front of him. And I think at this point
the pos the the creature that's in in
possession of her basically uses her
fear power on AR and the ghost it's kind
of like right as the last arc, right,
where the where the spirits of the ark
appear and they kind of look, you know,
she she looks up at him and kind of
turns into a skull face kind of thing. A
and so he now has got to do a fear check
against her. This is a spirit roll for
him. And I have stated up ar now as a
proper proper wild card. His spirit roll
is six. So he is a wild card. He is
going to roll two of them. He is at
minus two though because Cherylyn's uh
fear power is at minus two. So he rolls
4 - 2 is I'm sorry 5 - 2 is three. That
is a failure. Which means because this
is terror, he is going to roll a 1d20
plus two because that's the penalty from
her fear on this little chart here. Here
we go. 1d20 plus 2 is 18.
Major phobia. He gains the major phobia
hindrance. So Arin looks up.
He's startled awake by this screeching
skull-faced version of Cherylyn at that
exact moment as she screams at him and
he looks up and he's completely
terrified by this like paralyzed with
fear. His hair turns completely white in
that moment.
Cool. I think now we have to go to
initiative just to see who acts first
because the ghost it its intention is to
grab that scroll. Simon is on king.
Allies are on seven and the baddie is on
two. This is good. So, Simon is going to
go first. He is up. He jumps up with his
move. He grabs his crossbow, which of
course he keeps loaded because he's in a
very dangerous thing. And I think he
sees this. He's very confused. But does
he shoot at Cherylyn? He does see the
ghost. He sees Arin screaming. Yeah, I
think I think Edbert, you know, shouts
at him. It's not her. It's something
else. Simon shooter. Now, Simon does
have a magical crossbow, so this
crossbow can actually damage her if he
hits. Here we go. Stone bolts. Boom. He
will miss.
The bolt flies
past her.
Is he going to reroll that? You know
what? Benny time. First to three. Simon
Benny's. We're going to reroll that.
Here we go.
Eight. That's an exploder plus one is
nine. That is a hit with a raise. Okay,
this is a magic item. So, this is the
only thing they have that can actually
damage the ghost. So, he's going to roll
3d6 + one plus one because of the magic
damage. He could theoretically kill
Cherylyn here. Like kill. She's already
dead. But this magical weapon could dis
could disccorporate her for good. We
don't want that. We don't want to get
rid of Cherylyn.
Okay. Uh 9 + 1 is 10, 3 is 13. Oh my
god. Her toughness is five, which means
five shakes her. Nine wounds her and she
is not a wild card, which means she is
incapacitated. But here's the thing.
Incapacitated does not mean dead
necessarily. But I think what that does
mean is that just as the ghost is
reaching down for the scroll, the bolt
penetrates her back, goes right through
her, but her her physical form sort of
ruptures into a into a cloud of silvery
almost ethereal dust in a way. and she
discorporates
not necessarily permanently. But what
that also means is that this thing that
is in control of her no longer has
control because there's nothing left to
possess. Edbert in this moment that
sense of relief he had from the the the
brief separation. I think it becomes
overwhelming at this moment as he's like
and he looks at Simon and he says,
"Simon, what did you do? You you freed
me." I just think that he's overwhelmed
by the sudden freedom from torment. I'm
going to call it a 50-50 chance that
he's overwhelmed that he can't do
anything this round. 63 on 65 is a yes.
So, he basically he's he's shaken
essentially. Okay. Arn gets to his feet.
He's seen the ghost going for the
scroll, so he knows that that something
bad is about to happen. I think at this
moment Arn grabs the scroll. He shouts
to Simon, "Simon, we're under attack.
It's now or never." Uh and and Simon
know desperately trying to load his
crossbow said shouts do it now on do it.
So Arn grabs the scroll breaks the seal
unravels and begins to read these
strange clerical words cuz remember the
the scroll is a uh priest scroll as this
spiritual manifestation of the
intelligence within the temple is
definitely going to go after him
physically now and maybe even try to
possess him. But Arn acts first. AR
pulls the scroll and casts the spell. I
said before that this is a special item.
Normally scrolls in Savage Worlds, in
this version of Savage Worlds, you you
have to have the arcane skill, in this
case like miracles or whatever they call
it, in order for him to use it. So
really only a priest could use it. But I
did say that this is a specific scroll
that was specifically designed to be
used by virtually anybody. Is the scroll
weaker or stronger or or whatever than
the barrier 96.
Oh. Oh, this is great.
96 means that it's much stronger than
the barrier. So, this scroll Oh, yeah.
This scroll was hugely valuable. This
must have been scribed by one of the
absolute high priests of some temple.
This is a very, very powerful scroll.
Just a one-shot thing, which means
translated,
it's going to be rolling a d12 in
relation to the barrier. It's going to
roll a d6. So Arn casts the spell. He
reads the scroll
and he rolls a 12.
Oh, he should have rolled a wild die
with that, too. Three. So obviously 12.
His total is going to be 17. That's a
pretty good roll. The barrier has to
beat 17 on a d6. The barrier is not a
wild card, so it just gets unless it
rolls a six. This is it. The berry is
four, which means the words coming out
of his mouth are are some sort of, you
know, religious language, some religious
tongue or something, some temple
language. He doesn't really know what it
is, but he's sort of pronouncing them
phonetically,
whatever it is. And the the I think the
writing on the scroll magically kind of
glows and vanishes with each word that
he says until the scroll basically just
crumbles into dust. As it does so, the
shimmering, the sort of black shimmering
on the outside of the temple shimmers no
more. As it dissipates, there is a howl
of rage from
somewhere in the woods. Somewhere in the
woods. And now it is the intelligence.
Well, does it attack AR directly? Well,
you know what? Actually, let's put that
to the chart because it might not. it it
might attack or it might immediately
retreat to the inner sanctum to prepare
its defenses. Now that these defenses
are down, it can no longer sense
Cherylyn, right, Cherylyn. And it knew
that Cherylyn was the head of the uh
order of the purifying flame. So, it
doesn't know whether Cherylyn's gone,
still here hiding. It doesn't know that,
but it does know that the barrier has
been broken. I think it is somewhat
likely that it does in fact flee back to
its inner sanctum to prepare its
defenses rather than attacking directly.
So that's somewhat likely which means
that at Ka Vector 6 that's going to be
an 80% chance. Does it do it? 47. Yes,
it does. And flees back to its inner
sanctum. And we will deal with that at a
later moment. But for the present,
Edbert sort of on the ground gripping
his head. Simon runs up to him. Edbert,
are you all right? What? What's the
matter?
>> Simon, I think I think you did it. I
think
I think you freed me from that ghost.
Freed you from that ghost? Do you mean
with this weapon stone bolt? Yeah, I
think maybe she's gone for good, Edward.
I hoped to all the gods that you were
wrong about that. I do not know if we
can survive this excursion to the temple
without Cherylyn's power. Arin comes up.
You know, his hands still covered in the
the the
parchment dust that was once the scroll.
Simon, the barrier is down. We can enter
at any time. Let's find out what
happened to Cherylyn. I highly doubt
that she is gone for good from that.
She's pretty powerful ghost, but let's
find out. Cherylyn was hit by Stonebolt.
Stonebolt is a very powerful magic item.
Apparently true. While it only does plus
one damage and gives you the steady hand
hands edge, it also has the ability to
apparently puncture a ghost's back and
take her out. We need to determine
whether that bolt in fact ended Cherylyn
for good. I don't think it's going to
happen. So, here's what we're going to
do. Because this is sort of a little
spot ruling I'm doing as a GM right now.
Normally, her vigor roll to see what
happens. This is an odd situation. These
rules weren't really designed for uh
determining what happens to your ghostly
allies. She is going to do a vigor roll,
which is only a d6. She's an exo, which
means she does not get a wild die.
However, because of the very particular
nature of this situation, for this role
only, I'm going to give her a wild die
because I just don't think that that
crossbow was enough to disccorporate her
for good. If she fails the vigor roll,
she has been destroyed.
Here we go.
Okay. Six plus 2 is 8. That is a success
with a raise. Edbert looks at Simon
again. Tell me. Tell me you've gotten
rid of her for good. Tell me I never
have to deal with her again. Tell me.
You freed me. Simon's like, I I I don't
know the answer. And then, oh, she
appears beside him. He clutches his
head. Uh he looks directly at her as she
does appear physically. Aren especially
who's who's gained a major phobia of all
things supernatural at this point. That
is going to screw him up for this
temple. I think he sees her. Ah, and he
sort of runs back behind the tree just
completely terrified now. And she looks
at Edward and I think she I think at
this moment she does speak and she says
to him in her weirdly ethereal ghostly
voice,
>> "I am not finished with you yet, Edbert.
you
for my death. And Edbert cries out in
pain, falls to his knees again. No.
Looks up at Simon, all hope gone from
his eyes. Almost instantly, the bags
reappear under his eyes as the fatigue
of his situation descends upon him once
again. He grabs Simon by the shoulders.
You You shot her. You You made her go
away. And then she screams at him again.
Ah. Hey, let's go. Bad news for Edward.
You remember a lot of us think that
maybe Cherylyn is like part of the big
happy family here, but Cherylyn has her
own agenda here. Cherylyn is keeping
Edward alive to get him to atone for her
own murder. So, she's not exactly a
friend. Let's just remember that she is
not a friend. Not your friend. So, the
barrier is down. Oo, the barrier is
down. Cherylyn is back. The evil
intelligence has fled back to its inner
sanctum. And I think it is now time for
our friends to go inside the temple,
which will lead us to a new scene. Let's
end that scene here. So, any characters
to add here? Yes, we have the Thoren
intelligence, the leader of this temple.
So, I I put that down as a character.
And to update the threads, use the
scroll on the temple buried with iron.
Well, yes, that has been taken care of.
And now, search for Simon's father is
the only part of that thread left to go.
Exercise Edward's ghost. Well, almost.
We almost completed that thread, but
alas, she successfully beat it, which
makes sense cuz I don't think that a
bolt from Stonebolt would be enough to
completely destroy her. Cherylyn wants
Edbert to atone is still definitely
there. Search for Simon's father is the
next thread that they are going to be
looking at. Chaos Factor, I think, goes
up to seven for the beginning of the new
scene. Scene setup. Enter the temple.
Here we go. Let us see if the scene of
entering the temple is altered or
interrupted.
Eight. It is not. So, our gang gathers
up their weapons. They know now that the
intelligence, the leader of the temple,
whatever it is that's controlling this
place, knows that they are here.
Cherylyn communicates to Edbert that the
the intelligence has fled back to its
inner sanctum there to bolster its
defenses. What do they find on the way?
Well, so basically, I'm using the
dungeon exploration uh rules from the
Perilous Wilds here. I have a a list of
area types and contents, a list of
themes, all kind of stuff you can find
in the Perilous Wilds. They enter the
temple. Now they know that ahead of them
is the kitchens. Past that was the
storage area where there was the rift in
the in the in the earth basically that
led to the storage area. So they don't
want to go back there. They also know
that if they go left if they go up to
the kitchens and then exit the the
western hallway, they will come to the
acolyte cells where they had the
confrontation with the mummy. So they
know what's there, but they don't know
what's anywhere else. So, from the main
temple area, there were branches going
off to the east and to the west. I think
that they are going to take the eastern
branch. Let's uh roll a D12 and see what
they encounter as they make their way
down the corridor. 12 unique and a
discovery. So, we go to our unique area
and it is a themed area which the the
next theme is rot and decay. So, what
I'm going to do here, I have I have a
list of unique areas, but what I'm going
to do, just because I think it's cool,
I'm going to go to the GM's miscellane
dungeon dressing, if you can see that
there. What do they find?
They find that makes sense. A crypt,
rot, and decay. This is where the high
priests of the temple would have been
buried. So, I think what happens is
they're walking down the corridor and
they come to a set of stairs going down.
And as soon as they start to descend
into the bowels of the earth, this smell
of rotting flesh seems to be pervading
the air. As they're coming down as well,
they can see that the blocks of stone in
the corridor are all decaying. They are
all they're in a state of disrepair. Uh
almost like the very stones themselves
are rotting away. Such is the influence
of the god of death on this very temple.
They make their way down to a crypt.
Ooh, that's kind of cool. And they find
not a danger, mind you, but a discovery.
Once again, the old D12 in this case.
What is the discovery? They find a
feature. And the feature is Al's niches.
They come down to a crypt and I think
the high priests were buried standing
up. So as they come into this
irregularly shaped room, this chamber,
again, the smell of rot, very, very
thick in their nose. They can see a
number of aloves. There's three, four,
five of them. Standing upright in each
alco is a sarcophagus,
like a coffin, a stone coffin with
graven images, representations of the
high priest that is interred within.
There is a discovery to maybe that is
more than just the al cove. There is
something of interest
to our guys here. Remember that Simon is
here looking for his father. He's
searching for his father. He's searching
for any kind of answer to what happened
to his father. Is there a clue to the
whereabouts or condition of Simon's
father in this chamber? I was going to
make it unlikely, but because they have
specifically rolled a discovery with no
danger, I'm going to make it somewhat
likely. Seven somewhat likely. Kas
factor 7. Is there a clue to the
whereabouts and/or condition of Simon's
father in this chamber? The answer is
yes. What is the clue?
That's an excellent question. I have no
idea. Let's ask the fate chart. Event
meeting
15 gratify
and
gratify 53.
Gratify home. I'm not sure what this
looks like yet, but he discovers
a clue that shows his father was here.
Gratify home.
But he managed to escape and to go back
towards home, back towards the city of
Kitan, back towards the area where Simon
himself grew up. Okay. So, what is the
clue that Simon finds in this crypt to
the high priest of this church of the
undead that shows that his father was
here but escaped and went back home?
His father was taken here with his
mother. His mother was turned into a
creature, turned into a mummy. His
father was also in the process of being
turned into a mummy. Turned into an
undead servant, but he was able to
escape. How did he escape? Is there a
way out of this crypt or is a dead Is it
a dead end? I have no idea. 50/50
chance. Is there a way out? An obvious
way out of this crypt. Chaos vector 7 65
is Yes. So, there is another exit from
this crypt. And I think that exit is a
secret door. It's a secret door behind
one of the aloves or rather in one of
the aloves behind one of the sarcophagi.
That sarcophagus has been prized open.
And that's the first thing that Simon
sees. He goes up to it and he can sees
that one of the sarcophagi, one of their
the lids is standing open, standing a
jar like this. Obviously, they're on
high alert. Arin more so than anybody
cuz he's super paranoid now. He's got
this massive phobia about all things
undead. Simon goes up to this open crypt
and he
pulls it open and he sees in the
sarcophagus there's a hole cut. In fact,
this sarcophagus was a false front. It
was a false sarcophagus. Behind it is a
passageway that goes down and then up. I
think ultimately leads to the surface.
This was one of the escape routes of the
high priest. If they ever needed a quick
way out, this was it. His father found
it. How does he know that it was his
father that found it?
because there's something there of his
father's. A bit of his tunic that got
snagged. A a a personal item that got
left behind perhaps by accident. What is
the personal item that got left behind?
Something that Simon would immediately
recognize as this is my father's
74.
Divide 91
weapons. Divide weapons. Oh, this is
great. He finds his father's sword. His
father was taken, had his blade
during the escape, managed to grab his
blade, perhaps fought his way out of
here, made his way down to the crypt
after his wife had already been consumed
by the evil power, and on the way out
had to ditch his sword. Maybe he was
wounded, maybe it got stuck on
something. Whatever the case is, or
maybe it's a piece of his father's
sword. It's the broken. It's his
father's broken sword. This That's
great. That's great. So, there at the
base of the sarcophagus there, Simon
hunkers down and he picks up his
father's sword. What's that doing there?
This This is the blade of my father. I
recognize the hilt. This is definitely
his weapon. He was here and I think he
escaped through this tunnel. So, your
father is not in fact here. So we can
go, right? That would be the best thing
for us to do is to get out of here as
soon as possible. I agree with Aaron. If
your father isn't here, then there's no
reason for us to be. Cherylyn, however,
I think has different ideas on this cuz
she is here to destroy this power once
and for all. So she begins like again
etherealally screaming in Bird's head.
He clutches his head again. I believe
that my father must have escaped this
place. I think he's he's got to make a
track roll to confirm this. We'll call
it minus one. 5 - 1 is four. A success.
He sees evidence of his father's
footprints in the dust. Yes, I was
right. He came this way. Arin kind of
hunkers down, too. Yeah, I concur. These
are definitely boot tracks. He must have
escaped this place out this tunnel. How
long ago did Simon's father escape this
place? We we know that the father had uh
had escaped towards home. So if that's
the case, yeah, we don't have to roll
this. If that's the case, this is very
recent. He very recently escaped, like
possibly in the last few weeks kind of
thing. Aren hunkers down. Yeah, Simon,
you are right. These tracks, they are
only a few weeks old. I think that means
that he's still out there alive. We have
to go after him. Yeah, that is a great
idea. We should go now. Simon, I don't
think Sheridan wants to go. I think
Shashi wants to go and find this master
of this temple and put him down once and
for all. Damn you, Edbert. You have to
get your ghostly friend under control.
Here is the first evidence I found that
my father is alive. We cannot stay. We
have to go. We can't. We have to go and
finish this job or she will never let me
sleep again. I know it. H Simon is going
to try and persuade the ghost.
He's going to try and persuade the ghost
to put her agenda aside. I think that's
going to be very difficult. This is the
second time they've been to this temple.
She knows she her her ghostly blood is
up, so to speak. She wants to put this
thing down. She's the ex- head of the
Order of the Purifying Flame. She's got
this creature on the run. She knows she
can track him down and end him once and
for all. It's going to be tough, but
Simon makes a plea to her. I beseech
you, Cherylyn. Let Edward go. If you
wish to remain here and purge this
place, then by all means do so. But I
need him by my side. My father is out
there somewhere.
I must look to the living now, not to
the dead. I'm going to make this a minus
two persuade. I'm not going to apply
Simon's outsider penalty because really
he's kind of dealing with an outsider in
a way here cuz she's a ghost. Oh god, he
doesn't even have it. He still doesn't
have persuasion. Oh, Simon, you still
suck. Yay. That's comforting. time. It
still sucks in a way. Uh, he's going to
try it. D4 minus 2 minus 4. This speech
doesn't convince her. If he doesn't
explode, it does not happen.
5 - 4 is one, which means he fails. He
fails.
Uh,
Cherylyn swirls around Edbert.
I don't think she's going for it, Simon.
So be it.
An Edward,
my father has been lost to me for many
years, but never before has he been so
close. I have his sword. I can see his
footprints, and I know that he is out
there now. But my father has survived on
his own this long. Another few hours
will not be the difference between his
life and death. I do not think.
Cherylyn,
we will not turn aside from this place.
Now
lead the way. Take us to this evil
intelligence that rules over this place.
I will help you destroy it once and for
all. But then you will release your hold
on Edbert, at least enough so that he
may rest.
and then come with us and help me find
my father. Cherylyn swirls around Edbert
manifests in front of all of them again.
Arin freaking out cuz anytime he sees
the ghost now he's be freaking out cuz
he's gained this phobia. And she looks
at Simon and she nods
and she points the way back up the
stairs into the main temple area. They
turn aside from the secret exit behind
the sarcophagus
and they begin to move back up the
stairway into the depths and the bowels
of the temple, looking for the inner
sanctum to put down this creature who
leads this temple once and for all. And
Simon casts one last glance back at the
exit, knowing he has never been this
close to finding his lost father.
But he must turn aside
and go with Cherylyn into the temple to
destroy the leader once and for all. But
that will be a story for the next
episode. Thanks so much for watching.
Don't forget to hit like and subscribe
and we will see you next time on Me,
Myself, and I.
[Music]
Well, hello and welcome back once again
to Me, Myself, and I. This is episode
14. 14? Yes, I think it's for 14
already. Oh my god. Uh, I am as always
your intrepid game master player and
host Trevor Devel. Thanks so much for
tuning in and as always, if you like
what you see here today, please do hit
like and subscribe and share the video
in all of the various places because the
word getting out is good for the show.
When last we left, Simon of Argan and
Edbert the haunted mercenary and their
newfound friend and turned friend uh
Arin Aralapunki. They had just got back
to the temple where the evil
intelligence of the temple had possessed
Cherylyn. Arin was able to read the
scroll first and bring down the barrier
which was super cool. However, Edbert
freaking out told Simon to shoot
Cherylyn because she wasn't herself and
she wasn't she was possessed at the
moment. Uh so Simon did shot her with
the magic crossbow stonebolt and ended
her. Now luckily she recovered but I do
think that at that moment Edbert clocked
the fact that that crossbow actually
damaged Cherylyn. So that could uh that
could come into play later on. Now
during this whole situation, uh Cherylyn
had basically caused fear in AR and his
hair went totally white and he now has a
phobia. Originally was going to be a
phobia against ghosts, but that's
stupid. Everybody has a phobia against
ghosts. And if you don't, you're crazy.
I thought it would be fun to have a
phobia against something a little more
mundane that way cuz what what it means
in Savage Worlds is that if you have a
phobia, a major phobia, which this is,
you have a minus four to basically
everything you do. So, you're like
paralyzed with fright. I think it'd be
interesting if Arn's phobia actually
wasn't wasn't about ghost, but was in
fact about long-haired human women. That
is what Chyin sort of looked like to him
anytime he has seen her. And he has seen
her a couple of times. So, I think his
major phobia. Anytime he's around
long-haired human women, he's going to
he's going to be irrationally afraid of
them, which I think is great. Anyway, so
they went inside. They discovered a
crypt. And in the crypt, they found
evidence that Simon's father had been
there and had escaped the crypt and was
probably not very far away, maybe a
couple of days or a week ahead of them
out in the wilderness somewhere,
possibly wounded, possibly injured, but
he had fought his way out. They surmised
because Simon had found his father's
broken sword there. So Simon tried to
convince Cherylyn to release Edbert
because he knew he needed Edbert and
Arin to go after his father. But
Cherylyn wouldn't do it. Cheryl was
hellbent on destroying the evil of this
temple once and for all and Simon knew
he couldn't go on without his uh his
allies. That is where we are now. So
before we move on to things, couple of
little things. Once again, our party has
leveled up. Yay.
Simon, he has taken marksman. Marksman
means that if he does not move, he can
shoot as though he aimed, which gives
him a plus two. Now remember, he's using
this crossbow and he tends to fire every
round, which incurs a multi-action
penalty of minus two. So now, as long as
he doesn't move, if he just stands there
and fires, he will basically attack have
no penalty and or or no bonus. Edbert
took the block edge, which basically
increases his parry by one. And finally,
AR. Again, Arn is a fullyfledged wild
card stated up character right now. He
basically increased some skills. He
increased uh investigate and climb.
Anyway, the point is they are back in
the temple and they are on their way to
find this inner sanctum where they know
the leader of this temple again, whoever
this thing is. We don't know anything
about this person yet, but the leader of
this temple has fled back to its inner
sanctum to bolster its defenses. What do
we know about the inner sanctum and this
evil intelligence so far? We know a
couple things. One, it's not a lich.
It's not a lich. We know that for sure.
It's not a lich. The other thing we know
is that this thing was using some sort
of aacular device to scry upon the
outside area. I think that's that. I
think we're ready to dive back into the
temple. So once again, we go to our
handy dandy perilous wild supplement
here. They have explored a bunch of it,
but there's still a number of areas that
they can still go. So they go out of the
crypt back up the stairs towards the
main temple area itself, which was the
entrance way. their boots clicking on
the old decaying flag stones of the
floor every now and then, crunching on
the remains of bone as those skeletons
had had risen up and and attacked them
when Simon first got in here, if you
recall all those episodes ago. So, they
move through the temple and they move
down the western corridor. What do they
find? I'm going to roll on the GM
miscellane dungeon dressing to see what
uh sort of room this is.
20. Oh my god. Well, this is appropriate
and grim. They go down the corridor and
the scent of rotten decay is
overwhelming right now because as they
walk inside, or as rather as they get to
the entrance of the room, I think what
they find is
the room is circular, maybe like 40 ft
across. There's no other exits from the
room, but the whole room, the door comes
out in the middle of the wall. And as
they look down, they can see the entire
floor of the room is a big bowl. And
they're basically the the door enters at
the lip of the bowl. And they, you know,
Simon leading the way kind of wa he
almost, you know, loses his footing a
bit, but he's grabbed by, you know,
Edbert behind him. And inside this, the
reason why it is wreaking of rotten
decay is because this is a charal house.
This is a charal house. This is the
place where all of those sacrifices that
the priests would make to their god of
death or whoever the hell they're
worshiping here. This is the place where
the bodies and the remains would be
tossed to rot in a strange sort of, you
know, hideous offering up to the god of
death. So, because it's been a long time
since this temple was in use, there's
not like fresh bodies here. Or is there?
So, let's find out. Let's just call it
I'll say it's it's unlikely. Oh, an
archa factor as well. What are we on
here? Seven. All right. So, I'm going to
say it's unlikely that there's fresh
bodies in there. 94. There's not. Oh, 94
is an extreme no. Actually, to to my
mind, extreme no means there's no
remains whatsoever. Ah, yeah. There
should be the remains of all kinds of
skeletons and bones and everything down
here, but there isn't. There's nothing
but old blood stains and like bits of
gear, bits of evidence that there were
living beings or you know the corpses of
of beings thrown into this pit. Now the
question is does Simon or or anybody
here do they ascertain that the the
function of this room and then be able
to ascertain wait a minute if this where
they threw the bodies where are the
bodies? Simon wouldn't have any
knowledge of this. Edbert well Edbert
did know about the runes on the altar
when they first came in. So it's
possible. I'm going to give Edbert a
common knowledge roll to see this. Just
a straight up smarts roll. I think his
smarts is d6. Oh no, Edbert smarts is
only D4. I guess you can't have the
brine and the brains.
All right. Does he know anything about
this five? He actually does. So he pulls
he, you know, he puts a hand on on
Simon's shoulder and he says, um, this
is where they would have thrown the
remains of the victims, the sacrificial
victims, but there's nothing here.
>> Well, what do you suppose that means? I
don't know for certain, but since them
skeletons in the first temple rose up
against you when you first came in, it
is possible that they might be lying and
wait somewhere else. In fact, it is
possible that the reason why with this
extreme no that there are no skeletal
remains is because, as I said, the
leader of the temple was bolstering his
defenses. I think he summoned up the
remains of those skeletons and had them
come to him in the inner sanctum. So, we
know that when they get to the inner
sanctum, not only will they have to deal
with the evil intelligence, but the
remains of those victims who are now
animated skeletons. M. There's no other
exits from this room, obviously. So,
they double back and they make their way
north where they then take the eastern
passage out of the K out of the
kitchens. It's as far as they know. This
is the only unexplored area left to
them. What do they find as they go down
the eastern passage? Ooh, it's a themed
area. Discovery and danger. So they come
to an intersection. So there is a
passageway going to the right, left, and
uh ahead of them as well. It is a themed
area, which means that again, the sense
of rot and decay is all pervasive here.
Not to get too much in the weeds about
how the Perilous Wilds dungeon
exploration works, but basically I've
you can only roll so many themed areas
before the dungeon is fully explored. So
I've just rolled the last themed area,
but what that means is there are no more
themed areas. And in this system, once
you explore all the themed areas, the
dungeon is fully explored. But we know
it's not because we know there's an
inner sanctum, which means necessarily
the inner sanctum is hidden. Secret
door, secret passageway, who knows
magically who could say, but the inner
sanctum is hidden. Which again kind of
makes sense. Why would it be obvious to
anybody who just blunders into the
temple? So, we'll deal with that in a
second. But what do they find in this
intersection? First of all, what is the
discovery? Well, the discovery is a find
and it is trinkets. So, we are going to
go to random tables to this book right
here by Matt David. Again, the uh link
is down in the notes below. There are
four tables for uh dungeon rooms to see
what's sort of in it. How many trinkets
are there? What kind of things are there
in there? Four. All right. Well, let's
go. One on each table. Why not? The
first trinket they find is a 30, which
is an adventurer's notebook.
The next thing they find, an orc fang.
Okay, why not? 1d12 copper pieces. Oh my
goodness, what a huge find. A tiny
silver dragon statue. Interesting. For
me, the the most interesting thing here
is this adventurer's notebook. But we're
going to come back to that because we
need to know what the danger is. Four.
It is a trap. An element trap. What kind
of element is it? A water trap.
Is it another pressure plate? We know
that this particular architect has an
affinity for pressure plates cuz there
was a pressure plates in the kitchen.
I'm going to say 50/50 cuz I don't know.
Uh 37. It is yet again another pressure
plate. So, do our guys see it? I think
the pressure plates in the middle of the
room because it's a intersection like
that, which means that as you go into
the room, if someone steps on a
flagstone on the center of the uh
intersection, the walls seal off, the
ceiling opens, and water from some river
somewhere begins to pour into the room.
Does Simon notice it? Here's what I'm
going to do. Simon is going to be
searching. They know there's traps here.
So, you know, their their eyes are open
for it. But because Simon is first,
we'll give a little marching order here.
Edward is second and AR is bringing up
the rear like this. Okay. So, as they go
in, Simon's going to get a notice roll.
His notice is only a D4, but luckily he
has his wild eye. And does he see it?
Exploding six seven. So, not with a
raise, but he does succeed. So, as
they're walking in, he immediately puts
his hand up. Edward, do you see in the
center of the room that discolored
stone? We should be very careful to
avoid that. We already know this place
is laden with traps. Well, little laden
with traps, but you would think that
they carefully step around it and a trap
successfully avoided. But there's stuff.
Is this stuff in a chest? I don't think
so. It's all kind of weirdly random. An
adventurer's notebook, an orc fang, six
copper scattered around, a tiny silver
dra dragon statue. I think it's just
kind of like refugees in the room.
Here's a thing.
The adventurer's notebook. Is it in good
condition? I'm going to say that's very
unlikely it's in good good condition. 77
is a doubles at our chaos factor of
seven. So, we have a random event. But
the answer is no. It is not in good
condition. As Simon picks up this
adventures notebook, he can see that
it's written in com. And he very
carefully starts to leaf through the
pages. But some of the pages begin to
fall out cuz it's, you know, water. Ah,
of course it's water logged cuz there
was a water trap in here. And maybe
that's that's what happened to the owner
of the book. So yeah, it's kind of water
logged. A lot of the writing is kind of
smudged and stuff like this. But as he's
looking at this, we have a random event.
Let's look at the event focus. 46. Move
away from a thread. Going to roll a D5.
Three. The minor miracle. Okay. This
this is a thing that came up in
character creation that we uh we know
nothing about. So a move away from a
thread. This random event will make it
harder to solve an open thread. Event
meaning 56. User
elements. Right away I think of the
water trap. User elements. Move away
from a thread. It has something to do
with the water. It has something to do
with the water. Way way way back at
character generation, we discovered that
Simon had witnessed a minor miracle.
This was from the Zanithar's Guide to
Everything book, but we didn't know what
the details of the miracle. What was the
nature of the minor miracle? 56. User
twice in a row.
19.
New ideas. We've already determined many
times in this world that the gods have
actual power. Priests can summon their
power and do all kinds of uh kooky
things. I think that in Simon's small
village outside the city of Kiton, there
was a a madman that came into town and
the madman
was spouting all kinds of things. He was
spouting new ideas, if you will. And the
new ideas he was spouting was that there
are in fact no gods. What he was
spouting was the powers that priests use
and manifest are in fact nothing more
than arcane powers channeled in a
slightly different way. And that in fact
all of the clergy of all of the
religions of the world were all deluded
because when in fact they thought they
were inoning the will of their gods and
when they were performing their rituals
to enact the power of their gods, what
they were in fact doing is unbeknownst
to them merely drawing upon the same
magical weave that arcane users use. So
in fact this man madman madman or is he
on to something? M but as he was in the
village square I think what happened was
the power of the gods manifested and
silenced him. Simon sat there to listen
because this actually intrigued him. He
was thinking what if this guy what if
this guy's right? Well, what if in fact
he's on to something. He was talking
directly to Simon at that moment the god
struck somehow. So how did the god
strike him down? I want to kind of
connect it back to this this thing that
just happened with the user of elements
with the water. I think maybe because
we're moving away from this thread.
Little bit of world building right smack
dab in the middle of our adventure to
get to the intersect. Okay. Yeah. So he
knew about Hundorra to the south and he
knew that they worshiped this water god.
They he knew that Morgus was a widely
worshiped god along the coasts of this
world. So he was preaching against
Morgus. He was saying the priests of
Morgus just draw upon arcane power blah
blah blah blah blah. And at that moment,
he kind of stopped and he was looking at
Simon and he started to choke as water
began to bubble out of his mouth. And he
and Simon went up to him and tried to
help him. But the man suddenly started
to drown right in front of Simon. And
there was nothing he could do. And the
man died. He drowned. Water, sea water
immediately bubbling up from. And so
that was the nature of the miracle that
Simon saw. Simon directly witnessed the
power of Morgus blot out this this
heretic. So now here in the temple of
Thurzan many years later to move away
from that thread I think would
reinstigate the idea that in fact maybe
this guy was right. Maybe the priests
are all delusional. Maybe there are no
gods. much against the evidence that
Simon himself saw and it is the
adventurer's notebook.
In that notebook, which is very hard to
read, he he looks and he can see, wait a
minute, he recognizes some of these
passages because he remembers these were
the same things that that guy who died
all those years ago who drowned in town
square.
That's what this guy was saying. Is it
his notebook? Is it somebody else's? We
don't know. And I'm not going to roll
for it right now because it's not that
important, but
it is something for the future. So, he's
found a notebook that would seem to
support the notion that maybe this crazy
guy who was saying that the gods don't
really exist, maybe other people also
were believing that. So, in in light of
that, we do have to move away from the
thread. I think Simon pious guy that he
is slams the book shut and throws it in
the corner. Art says, "What was that all
about? Is it of any use to us? No, it is
of no use at all. The ramblings of a
madman. We should move on. Arin kind of
looks at Edbert. Edbert looks at Arn.
They kind of roll their eyes and
undeterred, they continue down a
passage. Which passage do they take? I
think they're going to take the northern
passage. Now, remember, we know that the
inner sanctum is hidden. So, as they go
down each passageway, the north one, the
east one, and the south one, cuz they
came from the west, it ends in a wall.
Just ends in a wall. And they're like,
"What?" So, they explore the north, ends
in a wall, they come back. They explore
the east, ends at a wall, they come
back, they explore the south, ends in a
wall. Well, obviously, we missed
something. Is it possible that there was
a secret passage we do not know? Well,
we already know that there was a secret
passage in the crypt that leads out.
Perhaps we should take the way out. Out
is good. I like out. Out. Can we go out?
There must be another way to the inner
sanctum. We've got to search. Perhaps
there was something in the main temple
area that we missed. They go back to the
main temple area. And if you recall,
there was that altar at the very end
with the strange glowing runes in it.
The runes are no longer glowing because
the spell has been enacted and
disrupted. But Simon wants to check to
see if in fact that that altar moves if
there's any kind of way to move it
because perhaps he suspects there is a
secret passage down there. So does he
find anything with his search roll with
his notice roll? He will succeed. Now
the question is is there anything to
find? Okay, vector 7 24. Yes, the answer
is yes. Simon has found it. They go,
they search the main area for maybe a
good 15 minutes until Simon goes to the
altar and he sees it and he says,
"Edbart, come over here. Help me with
this." And they come over and they sure
enough are able to kind of slide the
altar aside and there they can see the
stone stairway going down into
blackness. They light a torch and they
begin to make their way down. This will
lead to the inner sanctum because that's
the only place left they have to
explore. And they know that the evil
intelligence is awaiting them there. But
we know nothing about this evil
intelligence. We don't know what it
wants. We don't know what it is. We know
nothing. We are going to find out about
that when they get there.
No, not next time. This time we're not
going to leave it on that cliffhanger.
Are you out of your mind? So before we
actually get to the inner sanctum, what
I want to know is a couple of details.
For example, what is this thing? What is
this evil intelligence that's the leader
of the temple? We know it's not a lich.
I keep saying that's not a lich. So, is
it something unique? It's got some weird
powers already. We I'm going to say it's
likely that this thing is unique because
h it just feels like it would be. And
74. Yes, it is a unique creature. Let's
find out this thing's name. Okay, we're
going to go to our dungeon dressing
guide here. Zir. Oh, I like that.
Zerator. That's cool. What is it? We
know it has the power to project itself
sort of ethetherly spiritually through
this scrying device in the temple. But
what is its physical manifestation? Is
it the remains of the necromancer
himself? So this is the temple. We never
actually did figure this out. You know,
this is the temple of Thurzan. Is Thuran
the god? I'm just going to go out on a
limb here and say, "Yeah, Thuran's the
god." So Zer
is the necroantic leader of this temple.
Zerator, not a lich, but I think
Zerattor was the necromancer that had
been given unlife, a sort of horrific
unlife. Does he have a physical body?
I'm going to call it 50/50. Does he have
a physical body? 04. He absolutely does.
That's an extreme yes. I think that body
is extremely well preserved. In fact, if
you looked at him, he looks absolutely
normal because he's very much tied to
his body. I think that he's vulnerable.
I have this image of him being like tied
to a crypt or something where his
physical body is not is not something
like he doesn't get up and move around.
I think that his powers entirely
magical. What sort of magic powers does
he have? We'll we'll randomly determine
what he has as we go to keep it totally
up in the air cuz I don't know and I
don't really want to know until Simon
knows. Before we get to the crypt, there
is one other question I have and this
has always sort of been on my mind. Why
was Zerator interested in Simon's
parents? Why did he abduct Simon's
parents? Why did he turn Simon's mother
into a mummy? Why was he trying to
transform Simon's father? Were Simon's
parents somehow special? Did Zir at
Did he somehow sense their special
nature and realize he could harness that
nature for his own nefarious purposes?
50/50. Were Simon's parents in
possession of any kind of special trait
that was of interest to Zerator?
Yes. Okay, this is interesting. I'm
going to add that as a thread right now.
Simon's parents were special. Discover
why Zerator was interested in them.
That's another threat. Our team descends
down the stairs. The smell of rot and
decay. Very, very, very prevalent as it
is through most places of this temple.
When they get down to the temple, what
they see is a large steel door. You
can't really see the See, look, I
painted that. Yeah, I used the paint
jobs and I painted the door. They are in
front of this door and I think beyond
the door they can hear some sort of
sound like the sound of uh not chanty
but I think they hear the sound of
something pulsating and I think that
that's coming from this uh device. They
open the door. There is a large temple
area with steps rising up past this
thing which I'll get to in a second.
There is a crypt at the back. There's
all kinds of stuff. There's like shelves
with books and crates and barrels and a
couple of other sarcophagi over here.
There's like a like a a pedestal almost
like a little altar kind of thing that
of the type that they've seen a million
times in this place before right there
in the center. Uh and there's a couple
of skeletons standing there
beside this thing. This thing this thing
is pulsating with sort of a black gold
light. This thing is theular device that
uh Zerattor was using to uh channel his
powers to be able to spy and to see
what's going on on the outside of the uh
the temple. So when they open the door,
they see this room and this is the crypt
where Zerator's body is, but it sort of
it looks like it's open just because
that's what the miniature is, but in
fact it's it's sealed. And I think that
in order to get to his body, not only
are they going to have to get to the
skeleton. So, not only are they going to
have to get past whatever powers he has,
they're going to have to actually break
into that crypt to do damage to his body
itself. Right away, we're going to have
to go to initiative. First one is Simon.
And he is quick. Boom. He's on eight.
His allies are going to be on Jack,
which is good. And the enemies are going
to be on queen. So, the enemies go
first. Let's deal with the skeletons. I
think that there was an undead call to
arms from Zerattor in the sarcophagus in
the crypt. He's a wild card, too. Of
course. Of course, he's a wild card.
He's a big bat. The skeletons are going
to turn. Okay. Well, they're all going
to run and they're all going to run the
same amount. They're going to run. Oh,
they're going to run 13. Edward has
first strike. So, he's going to hit the
skeleton as it comes in. We're going to
remember that in a second. This guy's
going to go after Edward as well. And
that one is not going to run. That one's
just going to move his pace of seven.
you know, skeleton, the bones clattering
as it draws an arrow and fire. So,
before we do anything else though,
Edbert is going to do his first strike
and he's going to roll. Come on. Oh,
look at that. He rolls an eight, which
is an exploder. He's going to roll 10,
which is a hit with a raise. Bow. And
he's going to roll. Oh my god. 13 of his
21
damage. Completely destroys that
skeleton immediately. Burn. And Brick
smashes the skeleton as it comes running
up to him. The other one will get a
chance to hit him. This one will get a
chance to hit him. And this one will
also fire. This one's going to fire at
Simon. Simon's the obvious target. So it
fires. Got to hit a roll. Four or more.
Ooh, it's going to explode. And it's
going to roll nine, which is a hit with
a raise.
3v6 against Simon's toughness. This is
bad. Of six. It has no AP, so it is does
not get through his armor. Six and a
nine versus his toughness of six is
going to shake Simon. Okay, that could
have been a lot worse. Oh, as the arrow
goes flies in at the same time as this
as this spearman,
the spear skeleton comes in to attack
Simon at the exact same moment, but he
will miss. Okay. Meanwhile, over here,
Zerator. Zerator. He's going to cast an
armor spell on his crypt. That's the
first thing he's going to do. First of
all, does he have the armor spell? I
don't know. I don't know. I think it's
probably likely. 85% chance. Yes, he
does. Okay, so he's going to roll to see
if that goes off. So his casting his
arcane skill is d12. So he is powerful
half the party. So he's rolling a minus
one. So he with armor is going to roll a
four. Minus one is three. It does not go
off. So I guess he was so consumed with
commanding the skeletons, he does not
get the armor off. Okay, but he does
have the armor spell. We'll come back to
him next round. It is our allies, which
of course is Arn right here. Arn has his
long bow out. He pulls it and he fires.
He's going to shoot with a d10. He has
also been leveling up. He is a wild
card. Does he hit? He explodes with a
six. He rolls an eight. That is a hit
with a raise. And against this skeleton.
Oh yeah, I think it's fair to say that
he completely destroys that skeleton.
Immediately it falls into pieces. That
was Edbert is now he's used his first
strike, but he is going to attack.
Normally he fights at a d8. D8 with his
wild card wild die of D6 is going to be
he will miss unfortunately. and the
ghost. Cherylyn can't use fear against
fellow undead, but she can use her
powers. I think that because Simon
agreed to sort of go with her, she is
now going to sort of return the favor
and put an armor on him. So, she is
going to roll her arcane skill. She's
also a d12, but she is not a wild die.
Does it go off is at minus one. 5 - 1 is
four. So, Simon now has an extra two
points of armor. So, his toughness is
now actually eight. Simon. He is going
to do a spirit roll to see if he can
break his shake. 2d6. He's got to get
four or more. And he does not. He's got
to get out of this. Bend his first benny
of the game to roll five. He will, but
it's going to take his whole round. And
that is the end of that round. We're
going to go to a new round. Simon is on
10. Allies are on two baddies on Jack.
Oh my god. Terrible. This skeleton is
going to shoot at Simon again. This
thing is going to attack Edward. The
skeleton shoots at Simon and he will hit
Simon with 2d6 damage against Simon's
now magical armored toughness of eight.
He's going to Oh god. 10.
14 against eight. Eight. Ooh. You know
what? That's bad. That's really bad.
Eight's going to shake him. 12's going
to cause him a wound. Simon's going to
have to spend a Benny to try and soak
this wound. Soak is a vigor roll. Come
on, Simon. he will succeed, which means
that he succeeded once. So the wound,
he's not wounded, but he is still
shaken. Oh, if the character soaks all
of the wounds from an attack, he removes
his shaken condition, too. So, he's not
shaken cuz he's spent his Benny, which
actually makes sense. He spent a
valuable resource like that. He gets
hit, but it does not wound him because
he made the benny check over here.
Skeleton is going to completely miss.
That brings us to Zerattor. Zerator is
going to try that armor spell again.
Okay, so he is a wild card. He's looking
for four more. He will get a 10. That's
a success with a raise, which means that
this thing now has four points of armor.
Basically, there's this horrible
necroantic glow that that envelops this
sarcophagus over here as the armor spell
is now in play. So, that's what he did
on his round. It is now Simon's turn.
Simon was not shaken because he uh
succeeded at his silk roll. So, he's
going to fire at him. He's already
loaded. He hasn't moved, which means
he's going to be firing at plus two
because of his new marksman edge. His
shooting is d8 plus a d6 wild die. And
what do we have? Oh my god, a critical
failure. A critical failure. So the
critical failure is basically I'm going
to rule that something the something
awful is the skeleton gets a free attack
on him as he opens himself up to
vulnerability. So the skeleton turns and
we'll miss which brings us to a new
round. Simon. Simon is
quick. Five or less. Five or less. Simon
is five or less. Simon's on 10. Allies
are on four. Bad guys are on nine. Simon
again is going to load and fire.
Multi-action penalty, but his marksman
means he fires normally. D8 and a D6 at
this skeleton right here. He will hit
normally with his stone bolt. So, it's
going to do 2d6 plus one magical damage
against that 7 8 plus uh nine versus
their toughness of seven is going to
shake that um skeleton just like that.
That was him. We go now to the bad guys.
Uh, this guy is going to do his spirit
roll to see if he can get up. Probably
not. No. So, he's really shaken by that
magical crossbow bolt. Meanwhile, this
guy over here is going to continue to
attack Edbert. Wham! He's unable to
break Edbert's defenses. That was the
enemies over here. We still have Zerto
in the coffin. Zerour is going to do
something cool. He's running out of
allies here quickly. I think he's going
to Yeah, now Zerour is going to try the
puppet spell. He is going to do that at
a minus one cuz he's already maintaining
his armor spell. So,
uh, highest of 7. 7 - 1 is a success
with a six. However, she gets an opposed
spirit roll. Oh, she doesn't beat six.
You know what?
Oh boy. Does she spend a Benny? Yeah,
we're going to spend an NPC Benny for
her. She's going to roll that five. Oh,
so she still gets taken over. Oh my god.
Cherylyn is once again dominated by
Zerto, the leader of this necroantic
temple. In order to make her actually do
something,
it's going to be his action to do that.
Okay. So, his action this round was to
cast that spell. He can't do anything
else cuz that's his action. So, that's
the end for him. Which brings us down to
the allies. Let's deal with Edbert here.
Edbert swings his blade and he's going
to roll a six. He's going to explode
with six with an eight against Paris.
Seven. I'm sorry. Parry five. That's a
normal hit. So, he's going to roll his
damage. The toughness of seven. Uh,
eight. So, he will shake the skeleton.
Bang. Arn is going to shoot that
skeleton at pretty much the exact same
time. As I said, he's sort of leveled
up. And he will hit with a four, but
just a regular hit. So, he's rolling 2d6
damage against that skeleton's toughness
of seven. 10.
Uh, 15 versus seven. That's enough to
destroy the skeleton. AR and Edbert and
Cherylyn can still go, but she's
possessed. They don't know that she's
possessed at this point. So, I think
that Arin is going to move his pace of
six. 1 2 3 4 5 6. And I think Edbert's
going to move his pace of 1 2 3 4. And
that's where he's going to end up
actually. Right there. Cherylyn does not
move. But I think that Edward is
probably so, you know, he's he's in
combat mode right now. I don't think he
notices right away. He will notice next
round if she doesn't do anything sort of
weird like that. But Sheldon does not go
with him. Okay, that was our allies,
which means now we go to a new round.
Simon, Simon is on seven. Allies are on
king and baddies on two. So allies go
first. Well, first of all, Edward here
is going to put this skeleton down. He
rolls his attack, which is going to be a
five, which it's parry is five, so it's
a regular hit. He rolls 2d8 damage
against this thing. It is already
shaken. Oh yeah, 14. That's going to
explode with He destroys it completely.
Smash. The skeletons are all destroyed.
made short work of how odd. This is
almost too easy. HR, I think, is going
to So, he sees this glow around the
thing, around the sarcophagus. He knows
that can't be good. He's sort of stunned
by this thrumming golden obelisk in
front of him. He's kind of like, uh, I'm
not entirely sure what to do here. He's
going to go up to investigate. Edbert
has smashed that dude. And now he's
going to move his six. 1 2 3 4 5 six as
well. And get to this obelisk. And I
think they're both kind of like moving
along looking at this obelisk. Not
exactly sure what's going on. Simon
moves his eight
cuz he's fast. He's got fleet footed. He
moves 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and basically gets
up there. Who has the best chance of
understanding that there's something
magical and terrible going on in the
sarcophagus? I think again it is Edbert.
I'm going to give him common knowledge.
His smarts is not very good though.
Common knowledge. Is he does he
recognize this necroantic power like
he's been recognizing necroantic power
stuff for this whole adventure? Uh he
does not. So he looks at that but he's
the reason why he doesn't notice it is
because at this moment he realizes
Cherylyn has not moved and he's he turns
back. Cherylyn, where are you? Where are
you? In this moment he's apart from
Cherylyn. This gives him just a just a
moment of clarity free from her constant
constant spiritual barrage by being in
proximity to him. And in this moment of
clarity, he thinks back to that moment
where Simon shot Cherylyn with the
crossbow. Simon's come up. Simon's
looking around. There's something going
on with that sarcophagus. We should move
to investigate. Yeah. Yeah, I think
you're right. Edward carefully looking
at that crossbow, knowing in this moment
that that crossbow could be used against
Cherylyn again and free him. Remember,
he is here to exercise his ghost. And he
saw Simon pretty much destroy that
ghost, at least momentarily. Meanwhile,
the baddies, there's only one baddy left
because all the skeletons have been
dispatched in here. I think he uses his
action on Cherylyn and she appears
with a screech screeching and howling
and again her face revealing itself in
this hideous skull. They must all make
fear checks at minus2. So Simon first a
spirit roll at minus2
two Simon fails. Edbert at minus two six
and five is 11 - two is a success with a
raise. He's perfectly fine. Edbert also
had brave plus two on fear check. So he
wildly succeeds that orange is not going
to have to roll again. He's jaded from
this. He's already seen it. So he's
freaked out but he doesn't actually have
to make the fear test. He's just But
Simon did fail, which means Simon is
going to roll on the fright table at
plus two because that's the fear level
of uh Cherylyn. 9 + 2 is 11. Panic. He
runs. Ah! Immediately right to the very
back wall. He's also shaken from that.
He runs to the wall, clawing at the
wall. I've got to get out of here. Sh.
She I've got to get out of here. We go
back to a new round now. Simon. Simon is
on nine. Allies on eight. Baddy's on
seven. So Simon is first. He's going to
do a spirit roll to see if he can break
out of the shaken. And he's going to
roll a five. So he does, but it takes
his whole round. They know that they
can't attack Cherylyn because they have
no magic weapon. She is still ethereal.
There's nothing they can do against her.
She is a ghost. They know the only
chance they have is Simon's weapon.
Edbert going to run up to Simon. He is
going to try and grab the crossbow from
Simon. It's going to be an opposed
fighting roll. Just quick sort of spot
call on this. Edbert is going to roll
his fighting of D8. And he is going to
get four versus Simon's fighting. Yeah,
I think he's still at D6. Four versus
five. So Edward grabs the crossbow, but
Simon kind of looks at him. What are you
doing? What are you doing, Edward? And
Edward's like, we need to kill her for
real this time. Meanwhile, the glow from
the sarcophagus, the true enemy is still
is still glowing there. Arin sees. He
knows he can't attack her. He moves up
behind the sarcophagus. Now they can see
the sarcophagus is glowing with this
horrible black glow, like the glow of
the armor spell. And I think at this
moment it's a very good chance that AR
I'm going to give him a smarts roll.
Does Aren figure out that maybe the
source of all of this is actually in
here? Arin smarts is D6. Does he figure
that out? Oh yes he does. With a success
he goes up beside his allies there. He
sees the glowing sarcophagus. He turns
to Simon. He says I believe that the
enemy we are searching for is in this
coffin. We must get it open. And he goes
to push it off. Now it has four points
of armor. So as they try and push the
sarcoph or as he tries to push the
sarcophagus lid off, he's going to be
minus four to his strength roll. And his
strength is only a d6, but he is a wild
die. Six
9us 4 is five, which is a success. It
takes his whole round, but he pushes it
off and it shatters into a thousand well
into four pieces to tell you the truth.
Bang.
Revealing in front of him this
perfectly. He's not even mummified. He's
a guy. He's sitting there, arms crossed
and reposed. Typical kind of, you know,
like mummy kind of, you know, position.
But at that moment, it's his turn to
act. His eyes open and there's this
black light emanating from it. He utters
a word and there's this miasma of
blackness almost like uh or or like
swirling skulls that magically appear
and begin to batter the entire group
over here cuz they're all within close
proximity right there. Uh 37. So yes, he
does have this spell. He's going to make
this a really bad blast, but it's going
to mean it's going to be four points,
which is minus two. So he's minus three
to this roll because he's also
maintaining the puppet spell on
Cherylyn. Then he's a wild card. Does he
blast the area? 5 minus three is two. So
it deviates basically against the wall
and it explodes against the wall. So all
of these like swirling magical skulls
howling around them, but the spell
misses. So it blasts against the wall.
They kind of explode into this ethereal
black mist. So mains we go back to a new
round. Simon. Simon's on eight. Allies
on six. Baddy's on queen. Okay. Well,
that didn't work. So he's uh he knows
he's in trouble here. Old Zerator. He
drops the puppet power on Cherylyn, but
goes to take over Edbert because Edbert
immediately is the most physically
menacing threat. So he's just a straight
roll. Does it work? Double ones. He's a
wild card. that is a critical failure as
he tries to cast his puppet power on
Edbert. So something bad happens to him.
The failed attempt of the blast spell as
well as his current failed attempt to
possess Edbert causes this obelisk to
basically start to thrum out of control.
He's no longer able to channel his power
through this obelisk here, which
basically shakes him for one round. He
is in bad bad shape. It brings to Simon.
Simon sees him. Now, here's the thing.
As soon as Zerator drops the spell on
Cherylyn, I think her features go back
to normal. Does Simon notice that? D4.
He's probably going to do it anyway cuz
he's like, "Here we go." Does he notice
the difference? He does notice the
difference. Seven. It's a regular
success. He sees that Cherylyn is no
longer a threat. He shouts to Edward,
"Cherylyn is back to normal." And Edward
at this moment kind of like cuz Edward
was hoping that maybe he could grab that
crossbow and actually use it to shoot
Cherylyn with a good excuse that she's,
you know, been possessed. But no, it's
not going to happen. Simon grabs his
crossbow, loads it. He doesn't move, but
he pops it up and fires at this prone
creature right in front of him. Pretty
hard to miss. He's rolling his D8
shooting, and he gets an eight and an
eight. 16. Well, that's obviously a hit
with a raise. So, he is going to hit
with Stonebolt. Does this thing have any
further magical protections on it? I
call it somewhat likely, actually.
Somewhat likely. 68 is a yes, there is
further magical protections. We're going
to say that as long as this thing is in
the sarcophagus, it has an inherent
armor bonus. So, his toughness is going
to be seven. So, Simon blasts him with
stoneboat, the crossbow,
and gets eight. 9 10 11 12 versus seven.
Oh, that is a wound. This thing has
taken a wound from Simon's crossbow.
Edward sees his chance. He pulls a sword
and he slashes at this thing whose parry
is only two. When he gets an exploding
eight and an eight, he's definitely
going to hit with the raise. He rolls
2d8 plus a d6. It does have magical
armor. So toughness seven. We're going
to roll a five. 13 + 5 is 18 versus 7 is
7 is another wound. 8 9 10 11 is another
wound. That is three wounds. 12 13 14 15
versus that is incapacitated.
Edward grabs his sword and drives it
through the necromancer's heart,
bursting it as he does. Black icor,
pours, explodes out of his heart. There
is a roar of power as necromantic energy
emanates from his body, filters into the
obelisk, blasts up through the ceiling,
and explodes up into the night, going
back to the bosom of Thuran, the god of
death. The necromancer has been slain.
Cherylyn, she comes up to the obelisk
and she begins to cast a spell. What
spell is it? I don't even know what the
name of it is. It's basically destroy
the complex spell because that is what
she is here to do. That's what she spent
her life dedicated to. So, she begins to
cast this spell and the whole place
begins to rumble and shake and begin to
come down. Our guys immediately see
this. Simon Simon sees this run and they
hight tail it out as Cherylyn continues
the spell. And a few minutes later they
come blasting through the front doors
just as there's a tremendous roar as the
entire masonry of the temple collapses
in on itself. There is a massive
billowing of dust and masonry powder and
stones as the temple collapses
completely ending the threat of the
temple of Thuran.
That thread is done. Find the inner
sanctum and destroy the leader. That was
definitely done. Before we get to the
final moments of this scene, Edbert
pulls Simon aside. The entire reason why
I came with you was to find a method in
that temple to exercise this ghost from
me. I found it, Simon. Don't you see? I
found a way I can get rid of Sheron for
good. It's that thing. It's your weapon.
We can use Stonebolt to get rid of her
once and for all. He clutches his head
because of course Cherylyn hears him and
screams ethereally once again. He
collapses on the ground clutching his
head. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I I I won't.
I won't. I promise I'll never do it. I
promise. Simon sees this. Obviously,
Arin sees us. Arin with his newly white
hair. I think this could be a problem
for us. Edward already tried to grab
your crossbow from you. I believe he
will try again. Edbert's writhing on the
ground, clutching his head. Yes, an I
fear you may be right. We will have to
keep our eyes on Edbert and ensure that
he does not do anything stupid. Now,
let's get some rest. And as soon as
daylight comes, we go to find my father.
And that brings us to the end of the
scene and the end of this episode. Thank
you so much for watching and don't
forget to hit like and subscribe and
tune in next time for the further
adventures of Simon of Augustan and his
many strange friends here on Me myself
and die
[Music]
at him.
Edbert and Cherylyn are crunching
through the mountain snow. The sky is
slate gray as little bits of snow are
beginning to fall around them and fill
in their bootprints that they're leaving
behind them in the half a foot snow.
They're way up there. They're way up.
The wind is sort of whipping around them
and they are on some kind of mission for
the order.
Venance.
Vengeance of trials.
They're tracking down a criminal. They
are going after someone who was put on
trial for some sort of heresy, probably
necromancy. The necromancer's name,
Yigal. So, this person was on trial for
necromancy, but they escaped into the
mountains. The rest of the order, they
went off on some other mission, but
Cherylyn was still there when the
prisoner escaped. This was in a small
little mountain village. She was alone.
She realized that she had to go after
this person and so she basically rounded
up the first group of people she could
find which was Edward and probably a few
other mercenaries as well as they chased
down this necromancer into the
mountains. The necromancer who was very
powerful was calling upon various powers
and one by one those other mercenaries
were picked off until there was only
Edbert and Cherylyn left.
>> Break
break break plans.
Edbert and Cherylyn had tracked down the
necromancer to a small cave in the
mountains for days. They had been
following. They saw a small fire in a
cave up there. And Cherylyn turned to
Edward and said, "Yigal has proven
himself to be an extraordinarily
dangerous enemy. You and I will approach
with the utmost of caution. I will take
the right flank. You, the left, go as
quietly as you can." Right. Of course,
Sharon. Whatever you say. So they begin
to make their way up the side of the
mountain. The sun has already set. So
they're moving in sort of the the eerie
mountain darkness, which always has a
bit of a glow as the the light of the
moon and the stars bounces off the white
snow and gives everything sort of this
weird luminescence. But they're
crunching up the snow covered side of
the mountains, picking their way from
bald black rock to bald black rock to
gain purchase and not slip on the icy
snowy surfaces. Cherylyn is getting out
in front of it. He is slipping a bit. He
can't find purchase. His gloves cannot
find purchase on the rock. But she has
already gone up past him as he's
climbing up this rocky face. His boot
gets stuck in one of the crevices of the
rock and he's trying to pull it out, but
he's trying to do it quietly cuz he's
not he can't give away his position, but
he knows that she's moving up quicker
and quicker and quicker. And he's trying
to wave at her, but she is so intent.
And I think he sees something that she
doesn't which causes him to break the
plan of the stealthy ambush. He sees
from around the corner of the cave up
sort of behind where Cherylyn is. So she
can't see it, but he can because of his
lower vantage point. He sees one of the
dead mercenaries that fell on the way.
One of their ex comrades who is now a
shambling undead monstrosity is slowly
shuffling its way, dead eyes glowing
with this hideous red glow. And it sees
Cherylyn there and it pulls its wickedl
looking iron blade and it begins to move
up closer to her where it can stab her
in the back. He has no choice. He shouts
out a warning, Cherylyn, behind you. And
she turns and with a a gout of flame
from her hand, boom. He the the undead
thing erupts into flame and goes
careening down the cliff face. But now
the necromancer in the cave knows that
she is there.
>> Harm.
Home. Har of home.
>> Home in this case is actually the cave
where the necromancer is. That's that's
the home base. And harm means something
happens to it. The necromancer comes out
of the cave and immediately gets locked
into a magical battle with Cherylyn.
Edbert, desperate to help, finally pulls
he's able to pull his boot out of the
rock and scramble up. but he cannot get
closer because he happens to be on an
area where there's like a sheer surface
of ice right in front of him. And he can
see that the necromancer is beginning to
best her. He looks up and he can see
that there's an overhang. Basically,
there's a cave and there's an overhang
over this ledge where Cherylyn and and
Yigal are currently having their magical
battle. And that overhang is covered
with snow. like there's a huge like like
a 30ft snow drift there with a whole
bunch of like half buried boulders and
rubble and things like this. He pulls
his boot out of the rock and scrambles
up the the side of the icy surface. Very
hard to do and it's taking him a long
time to do it. In fact, so long that
Cherylyn is beginning to be beaten back
by this necromancer. She's beaten back
right towards the ledge, the edge of
that ledge where she's sort of, you
know, looking back over her shoulder at
the precipice. She calls out, "Edbud,
what are you doing?" and he's trying
desperately to scrabble up the slope,
but he can't get there in time. And just
as he gets up to the edge and pulls
himself over, he shouts at the top of
his lungs, "Shylyn, hold on." But that
cry of his echoes through the valley and
causes an avalanche over the ledge. He
looks up at the last second as rocks and
snow come tumbling down, hitting the
necromancer and squashing him like a
bug. But at the same time, he sees
Cherylyn looking up and she looks at him
directly, eyes wide, and a snowcovered
boulder comes careening down and
carrying her off, spinning away into the
precipice to her death.
Edward himself is also taken by the snow
and goes collapsing down the side of the
slope. He lands on a ledge below,
relatively unscathed. The rumble of the
of the avalanche is still going on, but
gradually it begins to ease off a bit.
He bursts out of the snow. He pulls
himself desperately to the edge of that
ledge and he he looks down and he sees
her way at the bottom of that
snow-covered gorge. He can see her
broken and battered body, her head
twisted at a sickening angle, her dead
eyes staring directly at him. Her dead
eyes staring
directly at him.
And he looks at her and he kind of
shuddters. No, no, Jared. No, no. I'm
sorry.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm
sorry. I'm sorry.
As Edward wakes with a start at the camp
that Simon and Arn share with him.
He is no longer in the mountains. He is
here in the woods outside the ruined
temple.
>> Edbert, are you all right? I'm I'm I'm
I'm fine, Simon. Just uh just just
bad memories.
>> Well,
try and get some more rest if you can.
At first light, we try and pick up my
father's trail.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I'm fine.
>> Are you sure you're all right?
I was just trying to save her life.
I was just trying to help her
get some rest.
And he pulls his threadbear blanket up
over him again,
puts his head on the his pack, turns
over on his side, and stares off into
the darkness of the forest, waiting for
sleep that he knows will never come. But
eventually exhaustion takes over and his
eyes
close.
Edbert and Cherylyn are crunching
through the mountain snow. The sky is
slate gray as little bits of snow are
beginning to fall around them and fill
in their bootprints that they're leaving
behind them in the you know.
Hello and welcome back once again to Me,
Myself, and Die. I am as always your
host, player, and game master, Trevor
Deval. Don't forget to hit like and
subscribe. And if you want to buy
something on our merchandise page to
help support the show, it is listed down
here in the comments. When last we left
Simon and company, they had successfully
slew Zerat the necromancer in charge of
the Temple of Thoran. But unfortunately,
before Simon could find out what
interest Zerattor had in his parents,
because his parents had something
special about them that Zerattor was
interested in, before that could happen,
Cherylyn brought down the temple in her
zeal to destroy it. And so any evidence
that might show anything about why Zer
was interested in Simon's parents is
buried under several hundred tons of
rubble. However, they do have the trail
leading north, and that is what Simon is
going to uh try and pick up as the dawn
breaks on the new day. However, a few
things I should point out. Simon is
concerned about Edbert. His haunting is
getting worse. He's getting less and
less rest. And he tried to grab the
crossbow from him in the fight because
Edbert had it in his mind that the
crossbow could actually destroy
Cherylyn, which is true cuz we saw Simon
do that. So, Simon's a little concerned
that Edbert might be growing more
unstable and he's going to have to keep
his eye on him because who knows what
Edbert's going to do in his desperation
to rid himself of this troublesome
ghost. the ghost, who we have now
determined holds him accountable for her
accidental death in the mountains
because of an avalanche that that Edbert
inadvertently caused while trying to
save her life. She wants to keep him
alive so that he can atone for her
death. But how does one atone for that?
So, some of you in the comments had
suggested that Edbert's slaying of the
necromancer or his giving the
necromancer the death blow, so to speak,
would you know soften Cheryl and would
allow her to say, "Hey, you know what,
man? You did good. I'm going to going to
count that towards your atonement." No.
Absolutely not.
Cherylyn does not care about that.
Cherylyn cares about the fact that she
was killed by Edbert and she will not
rest and neither will he until he does
atone. And I think that atonement is
going to have to look like this. He is
going to have to answer for her death in
front of the Order of the Purifying
Flame who thinks that he killed her on
purpose. They are after him. They are
hunting him. And if they find him,
they're going to shoot first and ask
questions later. So, he's not in any big
hurry to go. and find them. But I think
the only way that he can atone is by
doing that. Is basically submitting
himself voluntarily in front of them for
a trial of sorts to clear his name. So
that's something that might happen. And
there is someone else who wants to clear
their name too and that is Simon. As
they are going north back towards the
city of Kitan, he might get his
opportunity now that Arn has decided to
join his cause. Simon might get his
opportunity to go and confront Manfred
of Dovedane possibly and clear his name
for the crimes of which he is suspected.
But before we get anywhere near Kitan,
we are still in the forest as the day
breaks the morning after the destruction
of the temple. So before we begin, we're
going to check to see if the scene is
altered or um or interrupted
six. So no, our chaos factor is five.
First of all, let's just determine the
weather. I like to do a little d20 check
to see what the weather is like. The
higher the better. Oh, it is a beautiful
summer's day. Summer. I think we're in
summer. I should really write these
things down. So, as the sun rises, they
break their camp. They move into the
woods and Simon hunkers down trying to
look for any signs of his father's
passing. And he is going to roll a six.
So, that is a success. So, he picks up
his father's trail. But the tracks are
more than one day old. So, that's a
minus two actually. But he rolled a six.
So, six minus two is four, which is
still a success. So, Simon picks up the
trail. It looks like it's about a week
old. He follows the trail through the
woods. It is in fact heading north back
into the high mountains. He follows it
and follows it and follows it. I guess
the question is if the father is a week
ahead, is there any chance that Simon
finds him in this first day? I'm going
to call that impossible. No way. 60. No,
he does not find him today. So, he
follows the trail all the way through
the woods going higher up into the
mountains. The beautiful day, but
eventually day turns into evening and
they have to make camp for the night.
Quick survival roll to see with the
quality of that camp. Simon's pretty
good at this, too. Oh, Simon's pretty
good at things. I guess he doesn't suck
at everything. Gonna have to change a
logo. Look at that exploder. Eight. 82
is 10. Success with the rays. They find
a great camping spot. It's fully
defensible. It's dry. They can build a
small smokeless fire the whole bit. And
in fact, I think that it's so defensible
with a success with a rays. There's no
chance of them being accosted in the
night. So the night passes on eventfully
except of course for Edbert who is
constantly reliving these these dreams
brought on by the ghost of Cherylyn who
is incessantly incessantly tormenting
him. However, the next day comes and
they are going to follow the trail
again. So I guess my question now for
the faith chart is
does Simon find his father before he
comes out of the mountains? Once we know
the answer to this, we can start asking
questions about like what his father's
condition is,
how he left, where he's going, all that
kind of pertinent uh all those kind of
pertinent details. But for now, let's
ask the fake chart. Does Simon
successfully following the track as he
has been doing? Does he find his father
before he exits the northern side of the
mountains, which will take several days?
I'm going to call that unlikely. Okay,
so there's a 35% chance of a yes here.
85 is not an extreme no. Just a no. The
days go on. The weather a little cooler
up in the mountains. It's a little
overcast, but it doesn't rain. It
doesn't wash away the tracks. Simon is
able to continue following the trail.
Oh, that's a good question. Was Simon's
father trying to hide his trail at all?
Was he I don't know. 50/50. Um, he was
actually. So, Simon's father was trying
to hide his trail behind him. So,
obviously Simon's father was concerned
about being followed. I guess it would
make sense that he was concerned about
being followed considering he escaped
that temple and was probably worried
about undead beasties coming out after
him. Little does he know that is no
longer a threat because the temple is
destroyed. The days go by. It takes them
4 days to leave the mountains. The trail
is clear to Simon, but it is obvious
that his father was trying to cover it
up. The the trail avoids any
settlements. It avoids any sort of uh
welltrodd paths, things like this. But
eventually it exits down and I think
maybe that the the the father was
following a river that ultimately leads
up to the city of Kitan. We're going to
say Kitan is like 3 days away. Did the
father get to his destination or was he
way late? 50/50. Did he he did and it's
doubles. Okay. So that means we have an
interrupt scene for Simon here as he
comes out of the mountains. But we know
that the father did make it to his
destination. We're not exactly sure what
his destination was. So, as they're
coming down out of the mountains, what
is the focus of the interrupt scene? 66
a PC negative.
Well, now technically we have three PCs.
So, which PC is it? One to two is going
to be Simon. 3 to four is Edbert. 5 to
six is AR. It's Simon.
Okay. What's the bad thing that happens
to Simon? Uh, let's see here. Uh 57 is
create
01 create goals. PC negative create
goals. Creation of goals. Something
occurs that grabs his attention and
takes it off of the following of the
trail. I mean, this is a big deal.
Following his father, what would be so
significant that would seize his
attention to temporarily abandon the
track? I'm going to roll again. Get more
detail.
Gratify.
[Music]
08
>> enemies. I think that Manfred of
Dovedane has sent another kill team
after Simon. I think that AR has not
reported in for so long. I think Manford
back in the city has basically given up
on Arn has decided, well, he must be
dead cuz it's been a while now since AR
reported back to the city. So, I think
Manfred of Dovedane has sent a kill
team, so to speak. This isn't Warhammer
40k, but you know, a group of
mercenaries, a group of bounty hunters,
something to go after Simon and company.
Okay, so that means that they are going
to be ambushed in the woods by this
particular kill team. So, they've come
out of the mountains. They're beside a
river now. And I think there's going to
be copses of trees everywhere. And out
of those trees, bang, the attack has
sprung. First of all, is this a stronger
force or a weaker force? I'm going to go
to UN. What is the relative power uh
factor of these enemies?
Oh my god. 95. Okay, so that's a good
thing. Good thing 96 would have been
much stronger. This is in fact slightly
stronger. So that means that these
enemies are going to be fairly tough.
Tougher than them. So that means at
least the leader is going to be a wild
card. And I think there's going to be I
think they're definitely going to be
outnumbered. I'm going to roll a d10
stealth with a wild dye to see how well
they are hidden and waiting an ambush.
So this is their stealth roll to see how
well they're hidden. Ooh. Ooh. 10. 13 is
the number. So that's the success with a
couple of raises, but 13 is the number.
How perceptive are our guys? Simon
leading the way. Of course, Aron's
probably up there. Edward bringing up
the rear. How perceptive are our guy? R.
How the R r.
Well, let's see. Uh, Simon's gonna um
roll first. And I've done it this way
before that if he fails, I'm going to
give the next in line, which is AR a
perception minus two. And if he fails,
I'm going to give Edbert a perception
minus four. So there it's possible that
one of them sees the ambush, but it gets
progressively more difficult as we go
down the line. So Simon's notice. Oh
yeah, they knew he was very good. Is a
D4. He's looking to beat 13. He does not
see it, which means AR has a possible
notice roll, but this is going to be at
minus two. Oh, he's really good. He's
alert. He's That's a an edge he has. So,
he's alert, which is plus two. So, that
cancels out that penalty. So, he's just
going to do a regular notice. Still not
great, though. D4 and D6. He's basically
got to explode here. Does he explode? He
does not. Okay. Okay.
Boy, if Edbert doesn't notice this, then
the enemy gets the drop on them. And
that's going to be really bad. Really
bad. because that means well you'll see
if Edward fails this. Do you notice
you're only D4? My god, Edward, you will
suck. None of you can see anything. Are
you You're blundering through the
Okay, buddy. Okay, we have an exploder
here. We have an exploder here. D4.
Let's see.
6 - 4 is 2. They do not see this ambush
coming, which means the ambush takes
them entirely unawares. Who are these
ambushers? Let's do that right now.
Let's find out who they are. I keep
calling them a kill team, but I don't
think that their goal is to kill Simon.
Their goal is certainly to kill anybody
who's with them, but they still want to
bring Simon back. The leader, what are
you? You are 61. You a lethargic
84. A lethargic brute. So that means he
leads from behind. He lets his minions
do all the work for him. I'm going to
say there's three other bounty hunters.
So let's figure out a name for the bad
guy leader. Maybe it is a lady. A lady
bounty hunter. One to three is a male.
Oh, look at that. It's a lady bounty
hunter. Spanish cuz that's cool because
that's an accent I haven't done yet. Her
name this lethargic brute who leads from
behind.
Isabelle. Ooh, I like that. Isabelle.
So, she's a lethargic brute. So, she's
she's big and muscular and powerful.
They have successfully ambushed Simon.
Nobody in his party has noticed this.
Nobody has seen them. We are by a river.
Out of the cops of trees comes the
attack. What does that attack look like?
We're going to have to find out next
time because that is the end of this
episode. Thanks so much for watching and
be sure to tune in next time to see what
happens with Simon and his friends. Will
they survive this attack now that he's
so close to finding his father? Will
they actually survive this attack so
they can go on and we can put an end to
this threat once and for all? Not that
I'm in any hurry to end this story, but
you know, we are driving close to a
conclusion here. Simon's big thing was
about finding what happened to his
parents. We already know what happened
to his mommy, but he is so close now to
finally finding his father and
understanding the nature of his parents
and why all of this happened in the
first place. But if they don't survive
this ambush, none of that's going to
happen. So, tune in next time to me,
myself, and I. And thank you so much for
watching. And don't forget to hit like
and subscribe and to uh check out the
merchandise page. Some of you are buying
stuff, which is great. Keep those
comments coming. I do love them. I find
them very valuable. And we will see you
next time on Me, Myself, and I.
[Music]
Well, hello and welcome back to Me,
Myself, and Die. I am, as always, your
intrepid game master host and player,
Trevor Deval. Thanks so much for
watching, and thanks so much for
subscribing. We are closing in very
quickly and as of right now on 1,000
subscribers. Thanks for commenting as
well. It's good to know that you guys
are actually, you know, paying attention
to some things and and engaging with the
show that way. Keep them coming. I do
love that. Also, another quick reminder,
we do have merchandise for sale for the
show. Uh that link is uh in the show
notes below. So, when last we left our
team, they had just left the mountains
following hot on the heels of Simon's
father tracking him back presumably to
the town of or the the village of
Argiston where Simon is from just
outside the city of Kiton. The city of
Kiton where Manfred of Dovedane still
has a bounty out on Simon's head for his
perceived crimes. They left the
mountains and were following a river
through the woods when they were
ambushed by a group of bounty hunters
that were sent by Manfred led by a
bounty huntress, a lethargic brute as UN
informs us called Isabel. And now we
know that this group of bounty hunters
is slightly more powerful than Simon and
gang. So I've stated them up using
Savage Worlds. As you can see here, uh,
they're all extras except for Isabella,
the Huntress. She is a wild card, so
she's going to be, you know, quite
formidable. She's big, she's brrawy,
she's tough. She's also level-headed,
which means for initiative purposes, she
draws two cards and takes the best. We
also have command presence, which
basically means anytime her bounty
hunters are within 10 in of her on the
on the tabletop where 1 in is 2 yards,
uh, they get a plus one to their spirit
rolls to come out of shaking. That's
her. Then we have Stratton. Stratton is
another bounty hunter. He is an extra,
but he uses two swords. He has a
Florentine style, which basically means
that he's really hard to hit and it's
harder to gang up on him. He's also
two-fisted, which means that he will
attack twice when he attacks. He attacks
with a rapier and a dagger, but the
dagger will be with a minus two to hit
basically. Then we have Allandar the
archer, who is uh just your bog standard
sort of regular updo.
And we have Feain Rosetta. Feain Rosetta
is an Earthbinder. an earthbinder which
is I've determined a wizard that is like
a druid but isn't in harmony with nature
rather seizes the power of nature for
himself to bend it to his will. So
that's him. He is in possession of a few
spells which make him extremely valuable
to capture missions. One is entangle
which you'll see what that's going to be
like. Another one is deflection which uh
makes him harder to be hit. Other than
that he's he's kind of like an
apprentice wizard. So he doesn't have a
lot of things he can do. He's pretty
limited but he's extremely effective for
this particular situation. So that is
our group of mercenaries and bounty
hunters that are about to launch their
successful ambush against our team
because our guys failed their notice
rolls. So because they've just been
ambushed, I'm going to move the chaos
factor from five to six. It's bad news.
I'm not going to lie. It's bad news for
our team. But here they are. So Simon
and company are walking out of the
mountains along the river through the
woods. Across from them is a large
tower. They do not see the enemies. One
of which is here. Feain Rosatada here.
The leader Isabelle is there. This is uh
Allander the Archer at hiding in the
trees. Way over here is Stratton. These
names, by the way, were all generated.
The old random table supplement right
here uh that I've referenced many times
in the show. Matt Davids, the link is
down in the the doobly-doo, as the man
says. So, this is an ambush for sure.
When this happens, the side that started
the fight is not dealt cards, but begins
the fight on hold. So, technically
speaking, I know I said last time that
they had the drop on Simon and company.
I don't think that's actually the case
here. The drop is a brutal brutal thing.
It basically gives the attackers plus4
and uh to to hit and damage in the first
round. So, it's just it's just awful. I
think that Feain Rosetta, the
Earthbinder, will have the drop on them
because he's going to use a spell. And I
think the archer is going to have the
drop on them as well. But in terms of
either Isabel or Stratton, I don't think
they will because they don't have any
missile weapons and it's not like
they're hiding behind a tree right next
to them where they can leap out and get
if they were, they would definitely get
the drop. I think that's what I'm going
to rule that in fact only sort of the
ranged attackers have the drop. That's
still really bad for our guys as you're
about to find out. This is Savage Worlds
and of course we have our initiative
deck. So that's what we're going to do.
Simon and Company do not get an
initiative card because they are
surprised. Isabelle, she shouts out,
"Attack them." She bursts out of the
cover of the ruined tower, leaping over
these stones. She gets to the end of the
ford. That was her. The let's do with
Stratton. He is way over here, hiding in
the in the woods there. So, he basically
is going to run through the woods and
wind up about there, but he's going to
stay behind the cover of the trees just
in case someone decides to shoot at him
cuz he's a new idiot. Meanwhile, let's
start with uh the archer up here. Allar
the archer. He is going to shoot at all
these targets going to benefit from
cover. So he's going to be be shooting
at a minus one for light cover through
the woods. I think he's going to take
the most obvious target which in this
case from him is going to be Arn. He's
just a regular guy. D6 minus one one
will miss. So the arrow flies through
the trees and now we have Fain Rosata
the Earthbinder. He is going to cast
entangle because of the nature of his
magic. He is he's going to cast this
spell and snaking vines and branches are
going to erupt from the fallen trees and
logs like prehensile tendrils basically
trying to wrap themselves around each
and every member of our party. What that
means because it's four power points and
I'm using the optional no power points
rule which means he's going to be
rolling a minus two. And under this
template here, I don't know if you can
really see this here but here's a Savage
Worlds template and there's uh three
different sections. There's small,
medium, and large. So, he's going to
center it on Edbert, basically, which
means that you know what? Simon is going
to be outside the range of this thing,
which is kind of a help. He bursts free
of the trees. He begins to cast the
spell, chanting his language, his
magical language, coaxing the vines and
leaves and twigs and logs themselves to
rise up under his control and wrap
themselves and entangle at the very
least Edbert and Orange. So, his spell
roll is a d8. Now he's got to get four
to even succeed. He's minus two because
of the no power points thing.
Oh, and he explodes naturally.
14 - 2 is 12. That is success with two
raises. What counts here is that that
becomes the number that they have to
beat with their agility roll. So, I'm
going to put a 12 up here just so we
remember. Needless to say, the spell
goes off. And now Arin and Edbert have
to do agility rolls and they have to
beat 12. So Edbert is going to roll his
d6 agility with the dice and he's going
to roll a five. So Edbert is restrained
and Arn's agility is a d8. He's a little
better. He rolls his got to be 12. Nope.
And he fails as well. So they are both
restrained
as these vines completely entangle them.
So that's going to last as long as Fain
concentrates, which of course he's going
to do. That was the end of the enemy's
turn, which means now we go to a new
turn. No longer surprised, Simon is
going to roll. And he is quick. So he ru
five five or less he redraws. Five or
less he redraws. Five or less he
redraws. Seven. And his friends are on
two. The baddies are on 10. And once
again Isabelle takes the best of two
cards. Either four or 10. She is going
to take 10. Let's deal with Fain Rosa
right now. He is going to cast a
deflection on himself because Simon with
his crossbow is not restrained. So does
he do it? His casting is D8 and he is
doing this at minus two. He does not.
And he rolls a one. One means that he
does a backlash on himself. So when
you're using the optional rule of no
power points in Savage Worlds,
a one on the spell die is a really bad
thing. So failure, oh, this is even
worse. Failure means all currently
maintained powers are canceled and the
caster is shaken. So right away, Feain
Rosetta, young wizard that he is,
perhaps a young arrogant wizard, cast
this spell. He gets the off the entangle
and right away decides I'm going to
begin to protect myself, but he screws
up and he allows not only the spell of
the entanglement to drop, but he I think
maybe in shock he becomes shaken and he
rolled a one, which is backlash.
If a caster rolls a one on the arcane
skill die, the power automatically fails
and he suffers 2d6 damage.
Okay, well this is very good for our
guys. He suffers so he's definitely
shaken. He's already shaken from this
and he's going to suffer 2d6 damage.
He's going to suffer six damage against
a toughness of four. Is going to shake
him again. He's shaken because he failed
the roll. He took damage which would
shake him again which as an extra would
knock him out of the combat. But because
this is happening at the same time, I
don't think it's fair to apply the
shaken result twice for the same action.
So I am going to rule that he is shaken
but he's not he didn't take himself out.
So what does that look like? He
basically like, you know, the the powers
go hideously arai and all of the vines
that were entangling our guys over here
suddenly just fall limply back to the
ground. That's very, very good. Okay,
the archer sees this over here and
decides, uh-oh, he's going to take
another shot at Orange. Remember, they
haven't even moved. They've been slowly
walking through the woods and all of a
sudden, they got entangled. What? What?
They're looking around. Everything
happens in seconds. Arrows go flying.
Let's see if the second one hits him.
He's still firing at minus one because
of the cover. Two again. And Elanar will
miss flies through the trees missing its
target. Stratton over here. Stratton of
the dual blades. So he runs up. Now this
is going to kind of He runs up and he
gets up to Simon. This is going to screw
up Simon cuz Simon cannot fire the
crossbow at somebody if they're engaged
in hand to hand as per the Savage Worlds
rules. So basically Stratton even though
he can't attack, he just kind of
neutralized Simon's ability to do any
damage right away. That was him.
However, here comes Isabella the
Huntress. Now she comes charging in here
with her big mole. With her big mole
there, she comes charging in with a
mole. She comes charging in. Well, her
goal is to take down Simon. She was kind
of hoping that that that entangle thing
would work so that she wouldn't have to
do anything. So, I think as she's
charging up to Simon, she sees she hears
this ah from across the river. As Fain
goes down, she kind of looks over and
she sees she sees the magical trap of
these vines suddenly drop litly in front
of She's like, "Ah." She's really
frustrated by this, but nonetheless, she
comes charging in and swings her mighty
Maul right at Simon. She fights on a
d10.
And she's a wild card, so she gets a d6
as well. Simon's parry is five. She
comes
charging in. Oh, she'll miss. Amazing.
She comes in. The mall comes crashing
down, but Simon immediately sidesteps.
The mall comes crashing down onto some
rocks here, smashing them into tiny
pieces. Simon's eyes go wide as this
massive mall shatters the stones in
front of him. And he's thinking, "That
could have been my head." Okay, so it is
Simon's go on seven. He's going to
withdraw backwards
back to here behind this log. But as he
does so, he's going to draw free attacks
from both of them. However, as he is
withdrawing, he's going to take the
defend option, which is going to give
him a plus two to his parry. As he moves
back, Isabelle recovers her mall. She
comes back and goes to smash him. His
parry is now seven.
She rolls double ones. She's a wild
card. So, something awful happens. What
happens? Um, my first instinct is that
the mall gets destroyed. Yeah. I'm going
to ask the faith chart. Yeah. Does the
mall get shattered as she hits another
rock as part of her critical failure?
This is really couldn't go better for
our allies so far. Um, I'm going to say
it's probably unlikely. Okay, as KS
factor 6, this is a 50% chance of this
being yes, it does not. Okay, so
basically I think what happens is she
overextends and she is going to lose her
next round. Meanwhile, Stratton does get
a free hit with his rapier. His fighting
is a d8. He's not a wild card. He's he's
got a hit uh parry seven, so probably
not. No, he will miss Simon as well.
Okay, that was Simon on seven. He's done
cuz he took the defend option, which
leads us down to our allies here. Well,
the first thing that happens is Arin
sees us. Arin moves for free back behind
this log here. And fires his bow. One to
four. He's going to fire at Isabelle.
And no, he actually shoots a Stratton.
He shoots at Stratton. Oh yeah, he will
hit cuz it's it's a four is a hit. So he
moves back behind the log, fires that
arrow, it wham smashes into Stratton.
2d6 against Stratton's toughness of six.
What do we get? Four. So the arrow
basically impacts on Stratton's leather
armor and nothing is done there. That
was his attack. Edward, on the other
hand, pulls his blade and goes charging
into combat. He did pull his blade,
which is an action. So, this is going to
be a multi-action penalty. He comes in.
His fighting is still only a D8. He's
really going to improve that, I think,
when he gets the chance. She's
completely overextended and kind of
caught off guard by this. as she sees
Edbert leaping over the stones, swinging
his long sword at her. He will roll a
six and her parry is six, which means he
hits her. Bang. 2d8 damage against her.
Toughness on the other hand. Eight.
Nine. It's actually her toughness is
nine. So this is a tough She's really
hard to wound. And he will not wound
her. She just basically shrugs off the
attack. Wham. Edbert's, you know, his
his sword ringing in his hand a little
bit as it bounces off her her steely.
She is a brute after all. That was
Edward, which means we go back to a new
round. Isabelle will not take part in
this round because that she'd made a
critical failure. Simon is on the Joker,
baby on the Joker right there. Allies
are on King. Baddies are on three and
she is out this round. Great.
This really couldn't be any better. This
is amazing for a change. So, Simon with
the Joker means he gets plus two to
everything he does. He is definitely
going to shoot. If he shoots into combat
here, Edbert is engaged with both of
them. If he misses, if he rolls a one on
that shooting dice, he's going to hit
Edbert. Is it worth it? I think it Well,
he's got a really good shooting. He's
got to do it. He's got to try and hit
Isabelle. You can see that she is this
big, massive, brutish warrior coming in.
He needs to shoot at her. So that is
what he's going to do. He rolls a d8 and
he's a d6. He is plus two to hit and he
gets okay. Well, plus two is six. So
this is 2d6 plus three all in. And this
is toughness 9. Oh
okay. Well 12 + 3 is 15 plus uh 16 17
18. Also the the crossbow has two points
of armor piercing. So it'll nullify her
leather armor. So her toughness is
eight. So, she gets shaken and takes two
wounds. I haven't been giving enemy wild
cards bennies to spend, even though in
Savage World that is a rule. I think in
this case, I'm going to give her just
because it's it's too much for me to
keep track of. Believe me, there's
enough for me to keep track of. So, I do
this game as it is. But I think I think
in the interest of fairness, I'm going
to give her her one Benny. And her one
benny is going to be used to soak this
thing or to try. Uh, her vigor is very
good. It's d10 and a d6. She has to get
a number of raises here. Uh, and she
totally fails. So, she takes two wounds
and is shaken. What a hit. Her eyes go
wide with pain. And I think surprise, as
surprised as I am, and as indeed some of
you must be at how well this battle's
going. Oh, you know what? I just
realized he moved back on his withdrawal
action. He should have actually got an
additional plus two from his marksman
edge. Oh, he would have got it. Yeah, he
would have hit with a raise. So, you
know what? He would have hit with a
raise. So, I'm going to add an extra d6.
This may count. So, our running total is
18.
24 is what damage she's taken.
His marksman skill in this case cuz he
fired without moving. He had moved the
previous round incapacitates her. She is
shaken at minus three. Incapacitated.
That arrow basically hits her right in
the abdomen. goes right through those
corded ab muscles of hers
and sinks deep into her bowels. She
falls to the ground screaming in agony.
Wow, Simon, you don't suck at all, do
you? Do you? Unbelievable. So, she's
down. She is down. Isabelle, the
Huntress, who I thought was going to be
this huge threat, is down. Okay, that
was him. Allies. Edbert turns his I
think he turns back to Simon. He shouts
over his shoulder, "Nice shock, friend."
And he swings his sword now at Stratton,
who puts his rapier and dagger up,
desperately trying to parry. He's
rolling D8 and at E6 cuz he is a wild
card. And he's going to roll.
He's going to roll 10. Going to hit with
a raise. It is a regular hit cuz his
parry is eight. In we go. And he's six.
Will versus six is going to shake him.
Pow. Cherylyn at this point, she would
interfere to save Edbert's life so that
he could go on to atone by facing trial
at the order. But it seems like they've
got this well in hand. So I think that
her chances of interfering are no way. I
think it's no way. No way. Does she
interfere with this? 99 extreme. No. Uh
she will take no role in this combat.
She's just like, nah. Clearly these guys
have it. They don't need my help.
Okay, that was on them. Which we go now
go to the enemies. So, let's deal with
uh Stratton over here. Normally, they'd
get a plus one to their recover from
shake and rolls, but Isabella's down.
Her command radius means nothing
anymore. So, Stratton is going to do a
spirit roll of D6 to try and break his
shake. Does he do it? He does, but it
takes his entire action to do it.
Meanwhile, over here with Fain Rosetta,
he's going to do a spirit roll of D6 to
break his shake. He does not. He is
still shaken. Over here, we have Allar
the Archer. Well, Allandar has just seen
their Earthbinder wizard completely
screw himself. He's seen his big burly
boss rush into the fight and immediately
get shot and taken down. He's seen
Stratton battling for his life. I think
there's an excellent chance that uh
Allandar is going to hight tail it and
get the hell out of here. But let's find
out. He's going to do a spirit roll.
He's going to do a spirit roll. If he
fails, he breaks and he runs. He does
not. In fact, he succeeds with a raise.
So, he is not going to break. He's got
pretty good cover here. I think he's
going to take a shot at Simon. Simon
here is kind of in uh behind some some
pretty serious cover here. So, I think
there's going to be minus two to this
shot. He fires at minus two. He
completely misses. We did uh draw the
Joker, which means it's time to
reshuffle the deck. Well, I got to tell
you, I don't think I This has been what,
six, 17 episodes now? 16 episodes,
something like that. I don't think I've
ever seen a battle go this right for
Simon and his friends. I'm going to have
to come out with new merchandise. I
guess Simon sucks no more. Simon used to
suck. Why don't you uh why don't you
give me your thoughts in the comments
below on what you think the new slogan
should be. And for those of you who've
already bought the t-shirts that say
Simon sucks, well, that's still true. If
you keep watching up to episode 15, it's
still true. But for those of you who are
now watching this and beyond, maybe you
buy the new t-shirt which says what? You
tell me. Simon is quick. He is on 10.
Allies are on Jack. Enemies are on king.
Once again, Fain is going to try and
break his shake. Spirit roll of D6 one.
Absolutely not. He is so I think he's
reeling from the the discharge of
magics. This poor bastard. He just goes
in there. Haha. I cast the spell. It
fries him.
What a what a cluster beep. Uh he is up
and can attack. I have to do a spirit
roll for um Stratton 2. Does he get the
hell out of dodge? I'm going to give him
a spirit roll, but I'm going to get plus
one cuz he's a little more loyal, I
think, to Isabelle. Oh yeah, definitely
six. Uh two is that's a success with R.
So he is not going to run. In fact, he
stands right by Isabelle's side and he
ah en rage now. He attacks twice because
he does have the two weapons, the
two-fisted edge. The black one is going
to be his right hand. The white one's
going to be his his off hand, which is
going to be at minus two because of the
um offhand penalty. He is rolling and
he's going to get uh six. Edbert easily
with his long swing just blocks the
attacks of both the rapier and the
dagger. Allar who's going to fire again.
He's going to fire this time. I think
he's going to sort of move over here a
little bit.
move over to the edge and he's going to
fire over yonder at Edbert and he rolls
five minus one cuz light cover four that
is a hit toughness nine. Does he do any
damage to him? Eight. Nope. The
arrowhead gets tangled up in Edward's
chain mail armor does no damage to him
at all which is great. That's the end
for them which break which brings us
down to Edbert and AR. Edbert easily
fending off the previous attacks of
Stratton now. Swings his own blade at
him trying to hit him. He's got a really
good parry though and he will miss
because Stratton's parry is eight. So,
it's a flurry of blows, but neither of
them are able to penetrate the others
defenses. Arn, however, is going to
shoot. If he rolls a one on this
shooting die, he will hit Edbert, of
course, which is a Oh, and of course he
does. So, not only does he fail, he hits
Edbert. Sunk. Whoops. 2d6 versus nine.
Nothing done. So Edward kind of a kank
and he kind of briefly turns his head.
Hey, wash it back there. Which brings us
down to Simon. He is going to reload.
Actually, yeah. He turns and he fires at
the wizard who was just sitting there
slump slumped against the tree sort of
like green smoke coming out of his eyes
and his ears as struggling from this
magical backlash. Needs four more. Six.
He will hit normally. Pow. He rolls 36 +
1 against Fain's toughness of four. Oh
my god. 8 + 1 is 9. 10 versus four is
two. As Fain is sitting there against
against the tree, he looks up at the
last second and and Simon quick loads a
crossbow, levels it like a pro. The bolt
sails across the river catches Fain in
the throat, ending him. That was him.
And now Simon is going to be on ace.
Allies are on four. Baddies are on jack.
So Simon on the ace. He's going to
shoot, but let's see if he's in range of
this old fella right here. He is still
in short range. Just be actually he's
just out. Well, yeah, he's just on the
edge of short range. So minus one from
the cover. So he's just rolling a minus
one straight up. So d8 and a d6. And he
gets a four, which will hit 2d6 plus one
against Allan Darthy. Oh my god. What is
going on today? Simon is a killer. This
is I don't even know who this guy is
anymore. The bolt catches Allenar, who's
drawing another arrow in the eye.
Instantly dead. The enemy. At this
point, he's seen Simon take out three of
the bounty hunters. Remember, they show
up and Simon puts down three out of the
four with that crossbow of his. Katonk.
What are the odds? I think it's a
nearure thing that he chooses to
surrender. Uh 76 is a yes. Stratton on
his on his roll, throws down both his
rapier and his dagger, gets to his
knees, puts his hands up. Please,
please, my lord. I surrender. I
surrender. We need to know a little
something something about Stratton now
that he's, you know, has to talk. So,
let's find out. Let's go to Un. What's a
motivation for him? 69. 69. Dude, report
report affluence. He was sent by He was
sent as insurance to make sure not not
so much insurance on Simon cuz he fig
Manford figured that Isabelle would be
able to take care of it no problem. How
wrong he was. But I think he was
insurance to make sure Isabelle was on
the up and up. You know, she's a bounty
hunter. So, who knows? Maybe Simon would
have, you know, tried to bribe her,
offer her more money, that kind of
thing. So I think Stratton was insurance
for that. So that's what he knows. So
he's on his knees right now and he says,
"Please, my lord, I assure you I was
only here to keep an eye on Isabel."
>> Was it Manfred of Dovedane that hired
you?
>> Manfred paid for us to bring you in
alive. I can see now that that mission
is going to be impossible to achieve. I
ask for mercy. I ask to be granted leave
to go. I will not plague you again. What
do you think, Edbert?
>> I think I should run my sword through
him now. Guarantee he'll never bother us
again. And you, an you worked for
Manfred. You're a bounty hunter. Do you
know him? Does he? 50/50.
KS rank six. He does not actually. So,
he doesn't know Stratton. Does he know
Isabelle?
He does. I do not know this one on his
knees now, Simon. But that one, the
woman Isabelle, she is a bounty hunter
of great renown and skill. Although
today's performance would certainly
bring that skill into question.
She still lives. Simon, what should we
do with her and this one? He kind of
give Stratton a boot. Stratton, please,
my lord. I give you my word. Let me go
and I will not trouble you again.
Frankly,
this mission is not worth dying over.
What is your name, man? Stratton, my
lord. The last time I let a bounty
hunter go in the wild, it came back to
bite me. I am not certain that I would
make that mistake twice. I say we take
his tongue. Yeah, he's bloodthirsty.
Don't forget.
>> No, I will not kill you, Stratton. But I
will not take you with us either. I
cannot afford to be slowed down. Edbert,
get some rope from your pack. Tie him
and this Isabel to the tree. secure
their bonds strong enough so that they
can eventually break free long after we
have gone. I think this is a mistake,
Simon. We don't want to have them coming
back on us. I think we should just
leaving them here tied up. They might
survive or they might not. More
importantly, they might come looking for
revenge afterwards.
I would not often agree with Edbert on
this, but I believe he may have the
right of it. We should execute them.
This Stratton has thrown down his
weapons. I will not execute him. And as
for her,
she has taken a wound in combat.
That is the price she pays for attacking
us. I will not kill her, but I will not
help her either. Very well, Simon. We
will do as you ask. I still think we
should take something from them. tongue,
an ear, something, a finger, something.
Just the rope, Edbut. Now tie them up.
And they do. This scene is over. What a
combat that was. The chaos factor goes
back down to five because our guys were
unbelievably in control. They didn't get
hit once. The Simon was like a god. Pow
pow pow. So for the next the opening of
the next scene, we need to roll an arch
factor to see if anything happens. Uh we
are not. So our case factor went back
down to five. So six means that there is
no interrupt or altered team. Simon and
company make their way back down the
river towards the north towards Simon's
ancestral home of Augustan, leaving
Isabel and Stratton tied up behind them.
Simon in 3 days time is able to follow
the tracks, follow the the signs of his
father's passage to wherever he's going.
Now, he we're assuming that it's back to
Argistan, but it might not be. We don't
know. So, here's the question.
The original event implied that he was
going home. This this is a sure thing.
Is Simon's father going back to
Argistan?
60. Yes. 3 days go by. Simon continues
following the trail. Simon's father is
continuing as well to cover up that
trail. So, it's difficult at times and
perhaps so much so that Simon even has
to take an extra day. So, I think maybe
it takes four days. Off in the distance
to their left, they can see the mighty
city. the walled city of Kitan sitting
in the plains where the river runs to.
Actually, Kitan would be built on a
river. That makes sense. But that is not
their destination. Their destination is
the tiny village of Argiston to the
northeast of Kitan. And they make the
way across the farmland plains, past
cotters, huts, farmers houses, through
the fields of herders, sheep, horses,
this kind of thing. a type of
civilization that Simon has not seen in
some time since he was driven out of the
city of Kitan. Now, he knows that he is
still a wanted man here. He is an
outcast after all. So, it is very
possible that if he sees anybody that
recognizes him, that's going to cause a
lot of trouble. So, I think that Simon
and company is making sure that they are
laying low and they are being as
inconspicuous as possible. His cloak up
over his head at all times even though
it's a beautiful summer day most of the
time. But eventually, Simon arrives back
home in the tiny tiny tiny village of
Agugustan. I don't even think this is a
proper village. Like, it's not like
there's not going to be an inn, nothing
like that. There's basically this is a
group of foresters who live on the edge
of a of a massive forest. So, they have
some contact with the, you know,
merchants of the city of Kitan, but uh
mostly their business is self-
sustained. They're out here, you know,
trapping, getting furs, you know,
dealing in lumber, this kind of stuff.
as he comes into town. First of all, is
it day or night? Uh 1 to 3 is day. It is
day. The morning of the fourth day, they
emerge into the tiny village of Arstam.
Simon is going to go immediately to the
family household. Now, if I recall from
way back in the very first episode, he
was raised by his grandparents. This
presumably is where the the father is
headed for some reason. He picks his way
among the twisting roots of the massive
pine trees and spruce trees and things
along the little forest path and there
through the trees they can see the small
hunter's cabin basically that Simon grew
up in. Are his grandparents still alive?
I'm not sure we ever actually ask that
question. I think it's probably very
unlikely that they are.
No, they are not. Simon grew up in the
cabin. His parents got taken. He was
raised by his grandparents. his
grandparents died. He was alone in the
cabin, I think. Yeah, it was he
basically was an adult in this cabin
until he got driven out by this um by
Manford of Dovedane for his supposed
crimes in the city of Kitan. Whatever
that is, we'll probably find out soon.
So, as he goes up, he sees that there is
in fact a light on in the cabin. It
shouldn't be cuz the cabin was should
have been abandoned all this time,
right? But he sees the light. The trail
is definitely leading right to the
doorstep. Well, my first thought is the
father was afraid he was being followed.
Is the father here now? I'm going to
call that likely.
01 extreme. Yes. So, he is definitely
the one that started that fire. He is
definitely in that cabin and he's been
here for a week. So, he's had a chance
to sort of set up shop doing whatever
he's doing. Let's find out what it is
he's doing. Why did the father escape
from the temple and immediately go back
to Argiston? 55. Disrupt
tension. Disrupt the tension. Oh, Aam's
razor, right? The simplest explanation
is very often accurate. As far as he
knows, his son and parents, Diamond's
grandparents are still there. So, of
course, he'd go back to Argistan. It's
the simplest thing in the world. He
escaped the temple after seeing his wife
go down. He had to go home to check on
his son, but when he gets there a week
ago, his son is gone. I think maybe he
finds the graves of his parents cuz
Simon probably buried them out back and
no sign of his son. So, I think that
when the father got back to this cabin,
there was no explanation for Simon's
absence. He was just gone. So, he's been
there for a week. He would have gone
after his son. He would have tried to
ask around
what happened to Simon? Have you seen
Simon? what's going on. And I think by
this time news would have got back to
the villagers here that Simon was
accused of a crime, a terrible crime in
the city and fled the city. He's
probably tracked down a lot of details
in terms of what the nature of the crime
was and who was accusing him of it. Does
Simon's father know about Manfred of
Doved's accusations of Simon? Somewhat
likely.
10 extreme. Yes.
Simon's father has spent the past week
trying to find out what happened to his
son and he has found out. He's found out
that Manfred of Doved
not only accused Simon of these heinous
crime, of these terrible, terrible
crimes against some underprivileged
group in the city. I remember that from
the first episode. But whatever the case
was, if he is ever to return to the
city, he is to be immediately
apprehended and brought to him if not
killed outright, dead or alive. He's
discovered this about his own son, but
he has not gone into the city to find
out more information. Why? Because he
took a wound. He was wounded in that
temple and he barely was able to get
back here. In fact, that's probably the
nature of the trail that Simon was
following. Every now and then, flexcks
of old dried blood. That's the reason
why he's been here for a week. That's
the reason why he's still here now, cuz
he is suffering from a wound. I don't
think he's mortally wounded, but it was
bad. bad enough. And that also helps to
explain the reason why Simon's father
was trying to cover his tracks because
he knew that he was bleeding and leaving
a trail behind him for those undead
beasties. So, he's wounded in the cabin.
He still thinks he's being chased. So, I
think that he has basically barricaded
himself in that cabin, afraid that he's
going to be discovered by the undead,
who he assumes are coming after him.
He's the kind of guy that shoots first
and asks questions later. He sees three
individuals coming up. Although it is,
you know what, it's first thing in the
morning, so I think that Simon's father
is able to sort of pull the curtains
back from the smoke encrusted windows.
Does he recognize his son? That's the
question. It's been a while. It's been
several years. Simon's grown into a man,
but it's still his son. Simon's been on
the road a while, though. They call it
unlikely. Does he recognize his son? In
fact, he does recognize his son. So, he
sees his boy, his grown boy now. his man
is his boy grown into a man coming up
towards him up the garden path towards
the door of the cabin which he's got
sort of barricaded right and he's got
his long bow beside the door as well
he's got a woodsman's axe beside the
door he is ready to fight if he needs to
but he's wounded he's trying to recover
from this wound he sees Simon come up
and I think his eyes go wide
and he opens the door Simon sees his
father opening the door and he stops
Simon recognizes his father at once
father and he looks at him, tears
welling up in the father's eyes. He puts
his arms up and Simon
races up and for a moment he's like he's
like a little kid again and all he can
think is embracing his lost father who
he has not seen in so many years. And as
he does so, he embraces his father. Is
this the moment where we learn something
about the nature of the parents special
circumstances that caused them to be
noticed by the necromancer in the
temple? I don't know. I want to find
out. I mean, something interesting might
happen here. Call it 50/50. Guess Victor
10 extreme. Yes. So, as he embraces his
father, he realizes something is a miss.
Now, what is the nature of
Simon's father's particular situation
that got him noticed by the necromancer?
Find out. 28. Separate
61.
Death.
Separate death.
Woo!
What got the necromancer interested in
Simon's parents? Separate death. Simon
goes to hug his father. And as he does
so, he realizes that he can't quite get
a grip on him because Simon's father's
physical form is flickering in and out
of existence.
and he kind of he steps back and the
father looks at him with tears in his
eyes. What is it, my boy? Why do you
recoil? And Simon looks at him and he he
goes to put his hands on his father's
shoulders and his hands go through his
father's shoulders and he steps back
stunned and manifesting beside him.
Cherylyn points towards Simon's father
and she looks at Simon. He is one of us.
>> And that is where we end this scene.
Hit like and subscribe if you enjoy the
show. Don't forget to check out the
merchandise link below and keep
commenting, keep coming back, keep
subscribing, keep doing all the stuff.
Thanks for watching and tune in next
time to Me, Myself, and Die.
Hello and welcome back once again to Me,
Myself, and Die. I am, as always, your
intrepid host, GM, and player, Trevor
Deval. And as always, if you enjoy the
content here, please do hit like and
subscribe if you haven't already, and uh
help promote the show that way. Before
we get into the usual recap of things, I
should point out that uh Simon and
company have leveled up. So, just a few
quick little things here. Nothing huge,
no edges or anything like that. It's
just basically skills. So, Simon
improved his fight and his persuade. In
other words, he has the persuade skill
now. Imagine that. But his fighting goes
up to D8. His persuade is a whopping D4,
which is better than the whopping D0
that it was. Edbert, he increased his
fighting to D10. So, oo, that's pretty
good. And AR increased his fighting to
D8 and his climb to D6. The other little
bit of housekeeping I want to do. Last
time we encountered Simon's father.
Before we go on with anything else, I
think it's important that we find out
what his name was cuz I don't want to
keep saying Simon's dad, Simon's father,
Simon's dad. So, let's find out. Once
again, the old Zanithar's guide to
everything. Here we're going to the
English name table because Simon's name
is English, so his father would have an
English name, too. I'm just going to
assume. 83. Roland. Oh, that's cool.
Last time are Simon and company were
ambushed, but they completely wiped the
floor with these would be assassins
would be kidnappers, bounty hunters led
by Isabelle, who was in the employ of
Manfred of Doved. They complet they
didn't even take a scratch. They just
wiped the floor with was a nice change
up. That was a nice surprise actually.
Simon decided to leave Isabelle and
Stratton alive tied to a tree in such a
way that they could escape eventually
because he did not want to execute them
for their crimes because Stratton did
surrender and throw down his arms. So
those enemies may be around later. Who
knows? Or they may not be enemies
anymore. Who can say? I can't. But the
dice will later. So the point is they
won that battle quite handily and then
continue to track Simon's father all the
way to the village of Argistan which is
just to the northeast of the city of
Kitan. By the way, very soon I will have
a map composed by my friend and ally Wal
Ross who is also a watcher of the show.
Uh he's done a really really cool map on
um Wonderdraft I think is the name of
the program. It's a it's a mapmaking
software. Fairly uh inexpensive to buy.
Anyway, he's a bit of a master with this
thing. So I said, "Hey, how about a
little map of Simon's adventures?" And
he is obliging me. So hopefully over the
next, I don't know, week or two, we
should have some sort of visual
representation that I will obviously
share with you cuz it's really cool. So
they did track Simon's father back to
Argistan, but when they got there, we
learned a little bit more about Roland,
about Simon's father. We learned that he
had been in town for about a week and
that he had he had discovered that Simon
was in trouble with Manford of Doved in
in the nearby city of Kiton. He had
discovered that his son had a basically
a warrant out for his immediate arrest
and possibly execution if he ever
returned to these lands. This the city
of Kitan and the land surrounded Giten.
Oh, he had also taken a wound, a wound
that Simon had been following, a a uh
trail of blood. Now, this becomes very
interesting because we immediately then
discovered that in fact the thing that
made Simon's parents, Roland and Simon's
mother, who we don't have a name for
yet, but she's dead. The thing that made
Roland and Mummy particularly interested
to Zerat the necromancer was the fact
that they were already dead. That in
fact they were some sort of unique type
of ghost. A ghost that was in and out of
corporeality. Corporality, is that the
word? They they sort of were phasing in
and out of substance and not substance.
And it was very clear with the events of
last session that Roland did not know he
was dead. We're going to find out a
little bit more about Roland and this
and the nature of his death and the
death of his wife as well and the forest
which originally got Zeror's attention.
We're going to find all that out in just
a second. But just to do a little bit of
bookkeeping, our Chaos Factor is going
back up to six because the very end of
last episode was a real shock to Simon.
So Chaos Factor back up to six. Also, we
can close the thread track down Simon's
father. We have done that. The this
thread here, discover Zerour's interest
in Simon's parents. Well, that's what
we're about to basically get to the
bottom of two. So, I think we will
probably wind up closing that too. But
let's see. So, as Simon has just backed
away from the semi ghost of his father
and as Cherylyn had manifested and said,
"He is one of us." Simon, you know,
backed away completely horrified. The
father clearly had no idea what was
wrong. I don't think the father knows
he's dead. I also think that the father
the father's spirit because he is a
spirit. He is dead. He is a ghost. He's
just a very unique kind of ghost. A
ghost that a as I said does not know
he's dead and is also sort of phasing in
and out of corporality. That's the
reason why Simon was initially able to
embrace him but then his hands went
through his shoulders. So I think that
Roland does not know he's dead and I
think that Roland also has no sense of
time. So when Roland is looking at Simon
I think two things happen. Simon, how
have you grown so large in such a short
period of time? And who is that woman
beside you? I I do not know her. And
Simon looks back to where Cherylyn has
manifested and she is fully visible now.
Arin, of course, he's taking a step
away.
But Sim Roland sees Cherylyn as just a
woman because to his eyes, that's what
she would appear as, just a woman.
Father, do you not know how long it has
been? No, I'm I'm not sure how long it's
been, Simon, but
at least a week. A week? Father,
do you not remember? I
have difficulty remembering
anything. I Let's find out what he
remembers. Let's find out what happened.
So, first of all, I think Roland and his
wife, they're both hunters. They're both
foresters. So they would have gone out
together to hunt and to trap and do all
that kind of stuff. So I think Roland
and his wife many many years ago left
the cabin on an extended hunting trip
into the black oak forest. But something
happened. I think some calamity befell
them that got them killed. I think it
was mundane though. I don't think there
was anything special about the nature of
their death. I think it was a quick
thing. But I do think that whatever the
nature of their death was, it was such
that they were trying to keep each other
alive. So, I'm sort of picturing like
they fell down a creasse or they were
they were crossing a creasse by a a rope
bridge and the rope bridge snapped.
Maybe the wife was going first, you
know, the rope bridge fell down, hit the
side of the wall. She was hanging on for
dear life and he was trying everything
to try and climb down to her to help her
up, but the the rope bridge broke and
they both fell to their death kind of
something like that. So, was it that? I
don't know. I'm going to call it
somewhat likely on Chaos Factor 6. Uh
22. Well, doubles don't count for this
because we're determining a backstory
thing here. So, that is what happened.
So, they did basically fall to a mundane
death. I think the twist is I had this
idea earlier before the show and I I
think I kind of think it's interesting
because there has to be some explanation
as to why Simon's father, Simon's
parents actually became these unique
style of ghosts. Like, it's not just a
matter of them dying and then their
spirits come back to haunt the site or
whatever the case is. something caused
them to become these unique creatures,
which is what got Zerator's attention.
Remember, that's where this is all
coming from. He noticed them for a
reason. And I think the reason is when
they fell to the bottom of that ravine
after the rope bridge broke, at the
moment of their death, they fell onto
like a a field of plants or flowers,
kind of like Athalas or King's foil in
Lord of the Rings, which is a plant that
Aragorn uses to try and heal Froto's
wound in that story. So, I think it's
something like that. I think there's
some sort of herb or plant like a a
patch of it at the bottom of this ravine
that has some medicinal properties that
basically it's like a life preserver.
And I think when Roland and his wife
fell to their death, they landed at the
bottom of that ravine and somehow that
plant maybe it was pollen that got
puffed up. Who knows? But somehow that
at that exact moment interacted with the
moment of their death and caused them to
basically become their cause their
spirits to become unmed from their
bodies. It has to be unique. So I I kind
of like that. Let's ask if that's the
case. I do like that. So I'm going to
call it very likely. Such is the power
of the GM using the chart. I decide the
likelihood.
Very likely that that is what happened.
And 56. Yes, that is in fact what
happened. So now we know the reason why
they they became these unique undead.
And we also know the reason why Zertor
took an interest in them because I think
that Zerattor using his device in the
temple would have immediately been aware
of anything of interest to him,
something that he could use. Because if
he finds some sort of unique undead that
he could then harness and maybe take
their supernatural power and embed them
into a flesh construct, maybe that's
what happened to Simon's mother. That
would just be another tool in his
arsenal. So that explains the reason why
Zer was interested. It also explains the
unique nature of Simon's parents
particular situation. Okay, great.
Thread closed. Now that Simon is aware
that his father is in fact
some sort of ghost, that his father is
dead. I mean, this is bad news. I think
that this is overwhelming for Simon. He
stumbles back even further as his father
is like, you know, basically coming
towards him totally confused. He he has
no because he doesn't know he's dead. He
doesn't know what's wrong. He just knows
that he can't remember. In his mind,
he's been gone a week. He went hunting.
There was some sort of accident. Next
thing he knows, he's in this temple. His
wife gets turned into this horrible
creature he has to escape and his
instinct tells him to go back home to
check on a son. All of that is true,
except also he's dead. There's a number
of things that immediately leap to mind
here, and that is what do all these
characters want? Cuz this could become
very important very shortly. Simon
obviously now that he knows his father
is dead and once he recovers from the
initial shock obviously he's going to be
reeling from this for some time but I do
think that once he recovers from the
initial shock he's going to want to find
a way to put his father to rest what is
that going to entail I don't know the
the dice will decide so that's what he
wants wants to help Simon find his
father which he's done I do think
ultimately Arn's wishes are to help
Simon clear his name in the city of
Kiton and we are very close to Kiton
right now so I think that's going to be
a thing for him Edbert wants to get rid
of Cherylyn. We still know that. And
he's still got his eye on that crossbow.
And I think that any opportunity that
Edbert gets to grab that crossbow and
take a shot at the now now now visible
Cherylyn.
He might take it. So that could come
into it. Cherylyn, now this is the
really interesting thing. Cherylyn is a
ghost. She immediately recognizes Roland
for what he is, which is a ghost. But I
think that she also recognizes that he's
something different. Her entire purpose
is to obliterate the undead. So my
question is how does Cherylyn respond to
Simon's father? She has just said he is
one of us. Does that mean that she is
going to want to find a way to to help
Simon to lay him to rest to put him at
peace? Or I mean we've seen what kind of
person Cherylyn is, at least in her own
life. Does she attack Roland? I don't
think it's likely. I think that she
would understand that Roland is not a an
immediate threat to them in this. I
think that she would want to find
another way. But let's find out. I'm
going to call it very unlikely that she
just attacks.
Okay. Well, she does.
And we've rolled a doubles. As Roland is
walking down the garden path here
towards his son and the rest of them are
kind of freaking out a little bit.
Cherylyn begins to sort of, you know,
manifest even further and sort of rise
up and begin to launch some sort of
attack. Now, a couple things happen in
this moment. We have a random event.
We're see what that is. But I also think
because Simon is reeling from the shock
of this, he's just like his eyes, he
doesn't know what to do. I think Edbert
might seize his opportunity and try and
grab that crossbow to shoot Charlotte.
That is possible. Let's decide that
first. Does Edbert seize upon this
opportunity to grab the crossbow off of
the stunned Simon and take a shot at
Cherylyn? Very likely. Chaos Factor 6
22. He does. And there's another random
event. Okay, so he's definitely going to
make a play for that. And he sees
Cherylyn manifest all of her attention
on Roland coming down the garden path.
Simon stepping back, staggering back.
Edward grabbing that crossbow off of
Simon's back or side or wherever he's
carrying it. And kapow random events,
two of them. What's the event focus of
the first one? 84.
NPC negative.
Okay, I wonder who that's going to be.
The order of the purifying flame. This
might be translated into Cherylyn
because she was the leader of the order
of the purif.
Well, that's really hard to say fast.
the order themselves. They were on the
way to the temple and that was some time
ago. So, the likelihood of them being
anywhere near here, it's possible.
Before we get too far down that road,
let's just um find out the nature of
this first NPC negative event. Order the
purifying flame. NPC action is 32.
Delay. Delay goals. Okay. Well, that is
obvious to me. The NPC is in fact
Cherylyn as the head of the order. Delay
of goals. Of course, it is. Her goal is
to try and destroy Roland. And how does
it get delayed? By Edward grabbing the
crossbow and taking a shot. Now the
second event is 83. Ambiguous event
excitement
subject 50. Excitement travel. It's a
catchall category for anything that does
not directly impact characters or NPCs.
It's not necessarily bad or good. This
is a random event that has doesn't have
earthshattering importance. So this is
just sort of like an event of interest
basically. It's not excitement of
travel. Oh. Uh, actually the first thing
that jumps to mind and this is really
loosely interpreted of course as is my
right to interpret how I want.
Excitement of travel. I think the
excitement of this commotion on here out
here as well as Simon coming back
through the village has caused the other
villagers to take an interest of what's
going on. So if you imagine that sort of
all around here there's a couple of
other cottages. I think the other
foresters, the other huntsmen are coming
out of their cottages sort of excited to
see what's going on. They're traveling.
They're Simon has traveled here and they
are traveling out of their house. So
that's what's happening here. So
basically a crowd has been drawn as this
happens. So okay, I didn't think this
was going to be a battle. I just thought
I would I just put the stuff here of
visual interest. Okay, Cherylyn, she is
going to attack Roland. Roland totally
unsuspecting. Remember, he doesn't see
her as a ghost. She's just somewoman.
And he's like, "Hey, who's your friend?"
She opens up the floodgates of her
power. Does she just basically leap on
him and draw like a knife that like, you
know, like a dagger that she would have
had? Cuz, you know, I'm sort of
imagining that when when you die in this
world, if you do come back as some sort
of ghost, you have the ethereal versions
of all the stuff you had. So, I think
it's a good bet that she had some, you
know, knife with her. She doesn't have
access to her full powers, otherwise
she'd blast him, right? Well, actually,
let's find out. Does she have some sort
of power, some sort of magic spell she
can access right now that could directly
affect him? And I'm going to call it
unlikely. Unlikely. 74. She does not.
So, in fact, she screeches towards
Roland, drawing her dagger. To Roland,
this dagger is absolutely real. There's
nothing ghostly about it. It's a knife.
He kind of his eyes go wide as she comes
in. Now, here's my question, and it's a
simple one, but it's an important one.
Who acts first? Does Cherylyn stab
Roland before Edward grabs that crossbow
and fires? Now,
normally I would put this down to uh an
init an initiative card situation. Who
goes first? However, because we had a
random event generated that was clearly
an NPC negative, which is delay of goals
and it was Cherylyn is the head of the
order.
I think that automatically means that
Edbert goes first. So Edbert grabs the
crossbow from Simon, a stunned Simon.
Simon's like, "What? Edward." Edward
grabs Simon's crossbow off of him.
Spins, blasts the bolt towards
Cherylyn's back, shouting, "It wasn't my
fault. It was an accident." Kadunk. His
shooting is D6. And he's got to get four
more. He gets a five. So, he will hit
Cherylyn right in the back as she's
coming screeching towards Roland to end
this supernatural aberration once and
for all. The magic of the crossbow will
mean that the bolt does embed in her
back and hurts her. Now, her toughness
is five.
Five. Okay, she's about to plunge this
dagger into rolling one. Ah! Her eyes go
wide with pain as this crossbow bolt
appears between her shoulder blades.
Okay, now we have to go to initiative.
This is going to be a little weird
because who's the enemy and who's the
ally? All right, so what do we got here
for Simon? We've got Jack. This is going
to be Arn and Roland are on four. Edbert
is on his own card of five and Cherylyn
is on ace.
Okay, she's got to break free of this
shake. Does she do it? Her Well,
probably her spirit's a d10, but she's
not a wild card. Does she break free of
this shake? She does, but it's not a
race, so it takes her whole round. So,
basically, the crossbow bolt that embeds
itself into her back. She cries out in
ethereal pain, but then her eyes sort of
go black. She rises up. The crossbow
bolt crumbles into this fine black dust
and disappears. and she is back in
action, but it does take her whole
round. Which brings us to Simon.
Well, here's the thing. Normally, Simon
would want to stop Edbert from attacking
Cherylyn because Cherylyn has been a net
benefit for them over this whole thing.
And he
Simon's not the kind of guy to just
attack an ally. But that's she just
attacked his dad. Does Simon stop Edbert
or does he help Edbert? This was his
dad. Cherylyn is attacking his dad. She
also almost got them all killed in the
temple when she brought the ceiling down
on them. I think Simon I think Simon may
have had it with Cherylyn. Let's find
out. Does he stop Edbert from attacking
further? I think it's very unlikely.
90 extreme. No. The crossbow bowl hits
her in the back. He sees his father like
sitting there. Has no idea what's going
on. Simon turns to Edbert. Give me that
crossbow. No, she's got to die. She's
got to die, Simon. I've had enough. Give
me that crossbow, Edbert. I shoot better
than you do.
And he hands it over and he grabs it,
loads it, spins around, and fires. Now
loading the crossbow is minus two, but
he is marksman, which plus two, which
means he turns and fires normally at
Cherylyn. Okay, he's rolling his D8 and
he's shooting a four. So that's a hit.
It's a regular hit.
Regular hit. 2d6 plus one.
8 9
13 damage on toughness. Five is enough
to completely dispel her. But remember,
this happened once before. She got shot
by this thing, but it was not enough to
destroy her, but it is enough to cause
her to be completely disccorporated for
a time. I think that they have to find
another way to truly end the threat of
the haunting. What that is, I'm not
sure. But Simon hits hard with that
magic crossbow. She screams in anger and
vanishes in a puff of ethereal mist.
Edbert collapses to his knees again,
able to breathe now that he's free of
this haunting. I bleed temporarily.
You did it, Simon. You did it. She's
gone. I can feel it. I can feel it.
She's gone. Calm down, Edward. I don't
think she's gone for good. Remember what
happened last time. I think we must find
a more permanent solution for your
haunting. But yes, for the moment, she
is gone. Simon's father comes down to
him sort of in and out of corporality.
What was that all about? Why did you
shoot that woman? And where did she go?
He's just looking so so confused. Calm
down, father. Calm down. I will try and
explain everything. Just calm down. Arin
notices the onlookers who are sort of
looking outside of their their windows
and their doors. There's not a lot of
them. It's a very very small village and
everybody knows everybody, but I do
think that they're all sort of looking
and you know they're they're sort of
whispering to each other. This is going
to cause quite a stir I think at the
village and that news may get back to
somebody. Arin comes up to Simon. He
kind of glances around at all the people
looking. Simon, I fear you have made an
enemy of Cherylyn this day. And then she
returns again as she will. She will not
be so friendly as she has been. You mean
as friendly as she was when she attacked
my father for no reason?
>> Your father is
not your father anymore. Simon, if you
want to help him, we must find a way to
put him to rest. Put him to rest? I've
been searching for him for years.
and I have just found him and now you
want me to to to give him up.
>> You know what I'm saying is right. Your
father is in a state of suffering. We
must find a way to alleviate that
suffering. Edbert's still on the ground
on his knees, but I think he's laughing
maniacally.
I did it. She's gone. She's gone. I can
sleep tonight. I can sleep for the first
time and I don't remember how long.
Roland again. So confused.
>> Simon, what does this white-haired man
mean? I do not need rest. I feel pale
and vigorous. I do not need any more
sleep.
Come, father. Come inside. As Simon now
notices that, you know, the onlookers
are sort of talking behind their hands
and stuff. Let me deal with this look,
Simon. You go inside. Yes, of course. So
Arin goes off and he's talking to the
villagers trying to convince them that,
you know, nothing to see here, nothing
to see here, that kind of stuff. But as
he's talking to the villagers, you know,
they all knew Roland and they didn't
know what was going on with him, but
they did suspect something was off. They
had to have. He's been here for a week.
He's gone around to the villages and
he's talked to them because he wanted to
know what happened to his son in those
moments of clarity that he had, which he
obviously had. So they would have
noticed something was off about him. So
a few minutes later, Arin comes back and
joins the rest of them in the cabin.
They sit down around the table. I do not
believe that Cherylyn will be gone for
long. The last time we disorporated her
with a crossbow, she emerged very soon
after. I do not know how long it will be
until she emerges again. But we must act
before that happens. Simon, I do not
understand what you are saying to me.
Why don't you grab that bow and come
hunting with me like we did last week?
>> No, father, not now.
Just sit back. Try to relax if you can.
But I am relaxed, Simon.
And he gets up and he goes into the
bedroom. I cannot imagine what this must
be like for you, Simon. I am sorry. I
appreciate that, Arn, but there is no
time. As much as I would like to, I do
not think there is anything we can do
about Cheryl right now. Unless you can
think of something, Edbert. Think of
something.
You mean take us something like to make
a permanent like? Every time there's
been something weird or necroantic,
Edbert has had the answer. So, there's a
chance that maybe he does this time. In
his experience, has Edbert ever found
anything that could give him an answer
uh as to how to permanently end the
haunting? I don't think so. If he knew,
he would have had no reason to go to the
temple in the first place with Simon to
find a reason. So, I'm going to say it's
impossible. It's impossible, which in
this case gives it a 10% chance. It's
impossible that Edbert knows anything
about how to put 07. So close. But no,
he does not know. I suppose the answer
might be just keep that crossbow loaded
so when she comes back, we can put
another one in there. I don't think
that's going to be a permanent solution.
We will eventually run out of bolts.
Edward, what about you, Anne? Do you
know of anything that might help us in
this case? Does Arn know a permanent
solution to deal with Cherylyn? The
answer is 53. So, no, he does not. I'm
sorry, Simon. I do not know how to deal
with this. Well, then we need to know
how to deal with my father. In every
ghost story I've ever heard, a spirit
becomes unmmed from its body, and it
needs its physical remains to be buried.
Perhaps that is the case here. Is it the
case? I think that's likely. That makes
sense. It's all about trying to put the
physical remains to rest. So, like maybe
like interring them or burying them or
burning them and saying a few words of
respect or prayers or something like
that. I'm going to say it's likely 89.
It is not in this case. No, it's going
to take something a little more. I think
it is that, but I think there's
something else that has to be done, too.
That's how I'm interpreting this no
answer. What is it that they have to do?
I'm just going to randomly determine
here. In order to properly put Simon's
father, Roland, to rest. Uh 39. Bestow
07. Bestow allies. Oh, okay.
I think because Roland doesn't know that
he's dead, the first thing that has to
happen is he needs to be convinced that
he's dead. And the only way that's going
to happen is if they bring him to his
body. But it can't just be them. It has
to be the people who knew him in life.
In other words, it has to be the people
of this village that go with Roland to
the body and convince him that he's
dead. Okay. So that we have a two-part
task here. One, Simon has to find the
place where his father died.
He's going to have to ask him about
that. So he's going to he's going to
have to find where his father died, and
he's going to have to convince the other
people to to come. Now, the other people
are going to be freaked out cuz they
just saw some weird spectral thing going
on out here. So that's going to be a
difficult thing. So we have three new
threads here. Convince villages to come
with them, find Roland's remains, and
find a permanent solution to the the
ghost problem to Cheryl's situation.
Okay. So I think Simon goes into the
other room where his father is sort of
like standing confused. He's again he's
sort of phasing in and out of of
solidity, right? Father,
when you went hunting last week with
mother,
do you remember where you went? Does he?
I think it's a good bet he does. I think
it's a very good I don't know if he
remembers the exact weight there. 50/50
99. It's not a random event because it's
over the chaos factor, but it is an
extreme. No. His memories are completely
twisted up. He only remembers certain
things very vividly. It's it's it's
really a nightmare. They got to they got
to got to find rest for this poor guy.
What do you mean hunting with your
mother? I did remember doing that. Did
Did we go hunting? I We normally do. We
Why don't you ask her? Is she here?
Father, I need you to just rest here for
a moment. I'll be right back. He goes
back in the other room. My father does
not seem to recall anything at all about
his life or his death. I confess I don't
know what I'm looking for, but
presumably we're looking for a body
somewhere. I don't know where it could
be. We will need all of our tracking
skills. I will obviously be able to help
you with that, Simon. You should know
that the people of Argustinon here,
while they were noticeably upset at the
supernatural events happening just
outside this door, they also expressed a
real desire to be able to help Roland.
They had great respect for him.
It might behoove us to enlist their aid
in this as well. The last time I
traveled my father's forest hunting
grounds, I was a small child. Perhaps
the other hunters know the region better
than I would. Perhaps we should go and
persuade one of them to come to guide
us. If they are willing to help, if they
care about my father, like you seem to
suspect. I think that is a good idea,
son. They go out. They leave Edbert
there, who's still kind of like sitting
in the Oh, yeah. They leave Edbert there
because when they turn to him to ask him
to come, he's slumped in the chair,
snoring, asleep.
a dreamless sleep for the first time in
forever. Arn and Simon go from house to
house asking if anyone can guide them
along his father's hunting path. Simon
is going to roll his brand spanking new
persuasion skill. Good thing I took it.
And he is going to see if he can
convince someone to come that it's a
success
with one raise 10. So, it's a success
with a raise. So, not only does he
convince someone to come, that's someone
he convinces was actually one of
Roland's great friends, which is perfect
cuz that's exactly what they need to put
Roland to rest, although they don't know
it. Let's find out about this guy. 69,
Mor. His name is Morel, and he's going
to be he's going to have a French accent
because why not? What do we know about
Mor? Let's go to our UN. We know that he
was definitely a friend to Roland, and
that he's going to help them find
Roland.
an addicted
sniper. Okay, that means he's great with
his bow, but he has an addiction. He's a
lone alcoholic who's lost who lost his
family years ago. I don't know, a bear
mold them or something, but he's lived
alone for as long as Simon can remember.
And that's the reason why him and Roland
were so friendly is because Mor had no
had no family. So, he was he was kind of
a sad state, but uh but Roland was able
to sort of help him a number of times
over over his life. So Morlay is he
feels very very loyal to to to Roland
for that. I think they they go to his
hut and they they ask him about the
father's the hunting grounds and such
and Mor says uh yes Simon I know very
well where your father used to hunt
but I want to ask you
what happened outside of his house just
a little while ago. There was some sort
of commotion that looked unnatural to
me. What you have seen Mor is unnatural
indeed.
That is not father. It is his spirit
that is still tied to the earth somehow.
I believe we need to find his body and
bury it with honors and perhaps this
will
[Music]
put him to rest. He is a ghost. Yes, I'm
afraid so, Mor. Unfortunately, the
supernatural seems to follow me like
storm clouds. Will you help us?
>> It's a bit early for me. It's almost
noon. Yes, but I was I was up all night
with some brandy.
I will come with you. Give me a moment
to prepare. And he does. And they go
back. They wake Edward up, who is very
difficult to wake up. He's in a very
deep sleep for the first time ever. And
they go back to Roland and and Simon
basically says to him, "Father, I would
like to go hunting with you one last
time. Would you enjoy that?"
>> Yes, of course, Simon. Let me just get
my bow. Thank you, father.
It has been too long.
We're going to end that scene there.
That was crazy stuff with Cherylyn. I'm
going to increase the chaos factor to
seven. We've added Simon's father,
Roland. We've added Morlay the Forester.
And with that, the five of them leave
Argustan having only just arrived, but
knowing that time is of the essence
because Cherylyn could reappear at any
moment. But when will that happen? We
will have to find out next time. As our
characters move into the Black Oak
Forest, being led by Morlay, the
Forester, looking for the body of
Roland. Will they find Simon's father
before Cherylyn shows up again? Will
they be able to put him to rest? and in
so doing give Simon some measure of
peace that he has never known. Once
again, you'll have to tune in next time
to find out along with me. Thanks so
much for watching. If you like the show,
please hit like and subscribe and we
will see you next time and uh find out
what lies in store for Simon and Company
here on Me, Myself, and I.
Well, hello and welcome back once again
to Me, Myself, and I. I am, as always,
your intrepid host, player, and game
master Trevor Deval. As always, if you
enjoy what you see here today, please
don't forget to hit like and subscribe.
When last we left, Simon of Argistan and
friends, they had arrived at Argustan
only to discover that Simon's father,
Roland, was dead, was a ghost who did
not know he was dead. Cherylyn
manifested and tried to attack him as
that is her want. Uh being the ex- head
of the Order of the Purifying Flame,
whose job it is is to destroy undead.
Ironically, I know herself being a
ghost. Uh, she tried to attack Simon's
father, but Simon shot her in the back
and disccorporated her entirely, not
destroying her forever. However, we know
that Cherylyn can survive an attack from
Stonebolt. She will be back, but when?
That is the question that we will
probably find an answer out today. Simon
realized that the only way to put his
father's soul at rest was to bring him
to the body, which presumably is
somewhere in the Black Oak Forest, and
convince him that he's dead and that he
needs to sort of go bye-bye. Now, uh, in
order to do that, he enlisted the help
of his father's old friend, Morle, who
is this drunken forester who used to be
a good friend of, uh, Roland's. So, we
begin in the Black Oak Forest shortly
after Simon and company have left
Arguston behind. Now, there's a couple
of threads here I just want to put in
our minds to keep in order here. One,
Simon, because of the crazy nature of
what happened in the village with the
the battle such as it was with Cherylyn,
uh, and the fact that all of the
residents of Aguguston had seen it. So
because of that, Simon may have been
spotted by Manfred of Dovedane's agents.
It's possible. Or at the very least,
talk of this supernatural event and it
being associated with Simon, might get
back to the city of Kitan, which is not
very far away uh and might get back to
Manford. Is it likely? No. But it's
possible. So that's why it's a threat.
Uh find Roland's remains and put him to
rest is what we just discussed. Find a
permanent solution to Cherylyn. As I
said, Cherylyn cannot be destroyed
permanently by stonebolts. Edbert wants
to find a more permanent solution. Now,
Cherylyn wants Edbert to atone by
standing trial in front of the order for
her death, which she blames him for.
That is another thread here as well.
Edbert does not want to do that because
the Order of the Purifying Flame thinks
that Edbert killed her on purpose and
they have basically issued a warrant for
his like death. So, they will shoot on
site if they see him. So, Edbert's in
kind of a pickle here. He does not want
to ever see those people again, frankly.
He wants to find an alternate solution
to end the haunting of Cherylyn on him.
Will he or will he not? Who can say? He
is certainly relieved for the moment.
And he has actually slept. He slept a
full hour without being plagued by
recurring nightmares of the incident in
the mountains. Clear Simon's name to
Manfred. That's Simon's personal goal.
As well as uh Arin is interested in
helping now because I think Arin feels
that Simon had been maligned by Manfred.
We don't know anything about the crime
that he's accused of. We know it has
something to do with a group of beggars
in the city, but we don't know what that
was. I have some ideas of what it might
be, but
as always, the dice will determine.
Cherylyn will return angered.
Yes, she will. She always does. She's
like a bad cold. She keeps coming back
and giving you mucus. No, that doesn't
make any sense. Anyway, uh we find
ourselves in the Black Oak Forest. It is
several hours after our team has left
our team. Like, it's Mission Impossible.
after Simon and his gang his gang have
left and gone into the forest led by
Morel the forester who is as I said he's
sort of a loner alcoholic type so he's
always kind of sipping from the flask I
think my first question is we know that
they're going along Roland's old hunting
trails that Morain knows it's very
likely that the the bodies are somewhere
deeper in the woods they're not going to
be right here so I'm not even going to
ask the chart if they find them right
away cuz that doesn't make any sense my
question is the first date does anything
happen to them. Well, we're going to go
by the old mythic rules here and
determine if that is the case. Archa
Factor is currently at seven. So, the
scene setup is they are following
Roland's old hunting trail to try and
track down his remains. Is the scene
altered or interrupted?
Six. Well, yes, the scene is
interrupted. So, they are making their
way through the forest. They've been
going for several hours. Remember that
Roland here is a spirit. Although he
looks like a man, he sort of phases in
and out of corporeality every now and
then. It's it's pretty offputting to I
think most of the group. Simon
especially, this is his father after
all. But as they are making their way,
what's the general weather? I love to do
this. D20. Uh oh, it's a one. Okay, we
are in summer, so I think a one means
it's the worst possible weather it can
be. There's a terrific thunderstorm
going on. Rain is pouring down. The
winds are howling. It is a dreadful day.
I think this storm probably came on only
a little while ago. Uh there's no way
Moralay would have let them go into the
woods under these conditions. So, I
think this storm came in out of nowhere
fast and furious. Lightning scorched the
sky. Thunder rolls across the treetops.
Now, they are protected from the
majority of the the the ferocity of the
storm because they're in the middle of
this thick wood. However, they're going
to be soaked and and the whole place is
horribly muddy. Dangers of flash floods.
Oh no, not again. We'll see. So, let's
see what happens. They are interrupted
by something. The event focus on our
table here is going to be 58. A PC
negative.
Okay. Which PC? One to two, three to
four, five to six. Simon, of course. Why
not? Why wouldn't it happen to Simon? A
PC negative happening to Simon. What
happens to start us off? 88 control
75 military. So he lo it's negative. So
he loses control of something military.
Oh, I think then this has something to
do with his weapons or armor. The first
thing that comes to my mind is they are
going through this really really thick
oak forest. Lots of underbrush. Lots of
running mud from from overflowing
rivers, overflowing streams in the
forest. It's again it's the worst
possible conditions for travel. So
there's it's super slow going super
hazardous. So as they're going along I
think that basically there is not not
exactly a flash flood but there is a
mudslide that happens as they're
ascending a long root ridden slope and I
think that the the hillside the heavily
forested hillside gives away for a
second and the whole lot of them begin
to scrabble for purchase on this
horribly muddy hillside. Simon is in
danger of losing Stonebolt here. I'm
going to give him an agility roll. If he
succeeds with a raise, he's able to grab
the crossbow and grab the side of the
hill and secure himself against this
mudslide. If he just has a regular
success, he will save the crossbow, but
he will go tumbling down the the fourth
hill, getting battered and bruised on
the way, possibly worse. If he fails, he
loses the crossbow. It gets washed away
into the woods and also gets knocked
down. So, let's see what happens here.
Here we go. Does he succeed? He
succeeds, but not with a race. So, he
gets washed away down the side of the
mountain, but his hand clutches that
crossbow.
He goes tumbling past his companions.
He's going to take I don't think he's
going to take a wound, but he's
definitely going to be battered and
bruised. I guess my question is, does he
take an actual wound from this? I'm
going to say it's very unlikely that he
takes a wound. uh 70. So, no, he does
not, but he is battered and bruised,
which gives him a level of fatigue. For
the rest of this day, he's going to be
basically at minus one to everything he
does. Let's hope that they actually uh
don't encounter anything worse. So, this
is a setback, and it takes a while for
everybody to sort of gather up bits of
gear that they've lost in this quick
little mudslide, get back on their feet,
and navigate this treacherous,
treacherous terrain. I think, in fact,
Mor shouts out over the the deluge,
"This hill is too dangerous. We will
have to take another way around. It will
slow us down. I hope you're not in a
hurry, you know? And they all just kind
of like nod at each other. I mean, what
are they going to do? So, this is a
setback. And they do not make a lot more
progress that day. They make camp that
night. I think maybe Arin is out on
watch. Let's say Edbert's kind of
sleeping. So is Marlay. Uh, has the
weather improved? I think it's somewhat
likely the weather's improved. That was
a terrible storm that came out of
nowhere. They don't tend to last
forever. Has the weather improved? 02.
Oh, look at that. Uh, extreme. Yes. So,
not only has the weather improved, the
storm came out of nowhere, drenched the
forest, and moved on. So, by the time
they get to their camp that night, the
area is still saturated with water,
still very muddy and unpleasant, but
it's not actually raining or storming
anymore. So, the moon has come out,
which they can barely see through the
the treetops. Again, Black Oak Forest,
very, very thick forest, and they're a
full day in it now. Nonetheless, Mlay,
after having polished off another uh few
uh shots of whatever uh rot gut he's
drinking, is now snoring contentedly
away, as is Edbert. Snoring contentedly
away. And I think Simon looks at this
and he's he's actually I mean, he's
never seen this before. He's never seen
he's never seen Edbert get a full
night's sleep. In fact, I think Simon is
basically like he he motions aren't
over.
When it comes to taking the next watch,
I will take a double shift. But the next
watch is head birth shift. Yes, I know.
But look at him. And he's like, he's
completely out. He's completely out
snoring away. Perhaps you're right. V
should let him get his first sleep in
however long it's been. My thoughts
exactly. Now, at that moment, as Arin
goes back out to patrol around, I think
Simon's father, Roland, who's sitting
staring at the fire, fully corporeal at
this moment, I think his father has a
moment of clarity. I mentioned that last
episode about every now and then he must
have moments of clarity because we
determined that he was able to find out
what happened to Simon in the current
time. He's able to understand what
happened to S. He was able to uh to
discover that Simon is wanted in the
city of Kiton by Manford of Doved.
Simon's father has these moments of
clarity and I think he has one right
now. Let's find out. I'm going to say
it's very likely he does. And he does.
He's sitting around the fire staring
into the fire. Simon is basically poking
the fire with the stick. He's he's
huddled in his blankets, but he's kind
of poking the fire a little bit to try
and keep it going. And Simon's father,
staring directly into the fire, suddenly
looks up at Simon. Son,
what did you do to gain the eye of this
Manford of Dovedane?
>> Wait, you know about that?
>> Yes. All the villagers were talking
about it.
>> So you know where you are. You know your
circumstances.
>> I know that
you are accused of some crime
and I am certain you didn't do it. But
what was the crime? Father, we can talk
of my crimes later. What I want to know
is do you remember anything of the
temple of Thuran?
>> I remember escaping that place. I
remember that foul necromancer doing
terrible experiments on your mother. He
encased her spirit into a creature in
order to force her to do his bidding.
Father,
I should tell you what happened to
mother in the temple after you escaped.
Mother was in fact encased in a terrible
undead
body of sorts
wrapped in ancient linens and commanded
as some sort of automaton by Zerator.
Our intercession, however, destroyed
that body, and I can only hope that
mother's spirit has finally been able to
ascend and find rest. Oh, that is very
good news, Simon. I was able to track
you following your wound. You were
bleeding. Do you remember that?
>> Yes, I remember that. I would ask you
how it's possible that you were
bleeding.
I bleed because I am still here, Simon.
I am still here and whole at least some
of the time.
But quickly, son,
please.
Tell me what happened to you in the city
of Kitan. Why is this Manfred after you
and is there anything I can do to help?
Well, let's find out what happened
specifically to Simon in the city of
Kitan. Why is it that Manford is after
him? So, we know that Manford is a lord,
a local lord. My idea on this is that we
know it has something to do with beggars
in the city. My initial idea is that the
beggars were all being killed and Simon
got fingered for it. maybe the guy who
was, you know, like there was a serial
killer or something in the city killing
beggars for whatever reason and someone
mistakenly fingered Simon for it. You
know, let's do that. Let's see if that's
the case. And if that's not the case,
then we'll randomly determine what what
the crime is. But I think that's
probably what happened. That's like the
first thing that comes to my head. Well,
we'll just call it 50/50. Was Simon
mistaken for a serial killer that was
out killing the beggars of the city that
were under Manford's charge? Like
basically it would be if Manford's a
local lord in the city then maybe his
his particular district or something was
afflicted with this serial killer and
and they everyone believed that it was
Simon that did it for whatever reason.
Is that the case? Uh 50/50 10 extreme.
Yes. Well father I was in the city of
Kitan about a year ago. I was doing
little more than passing through. Truth
be told there were murders happening in
the city of beggars. The beggars were
killed in a rather horrible way. Were
they? Was it some sort of weird
ritualistic killing? I kind of want to
get away from cult stuff. So maybe I'm
going to say that's unlikely.
87. No, it definitely was not a ritual.
It's definitely not some sort of cult
that was killing these beggars. They
were killed for another reason. But it
was a serial killer for sure. Someone
was out there killing beggars for
whatever reason. And Simon got blamed
for it. I think it's I think it's
simple. I think that he discovered the
bodies like in an alley outside a tavern
and I think as fate would have it right
at that moment basically a couple of
town guards walked by saw him and
basically said you stop. Is that is that
what happened? I think it's likely
that's what happened. 75. Yes. So that
is what happened. I was coming out of a
tavern one night and I going into a back
alley and I noticed the bodies of
several dead beggars. When I stopped to
investigate a few town guard appeared
and immediately suspected me of the
crime. I tried to explain to them that I
had nothing to do with their deaths. But
these guards,
these guards were clearly very
frustrated with being unable to
apprehend the true killer. When the
guards tried to apprehend me, I fought
back. In the struggle, I got the
distinct sense that the guards were
looking for any old scapegoat to take
the fall. Since they could not find the
real killer, they blamed me. They only
wanted to appease their lord, Manfred of
Doved, and said that they had finally
caught the killer. And did he kill one
of the guards accidentally? Did he make
things worse for himself? Probably.
We'll call it likely.
Yeah. 17. It's um Oh, extreme. Yes. So,
he killed one of the guards and it was
not good. He he he didn't want to. He
didn't intend to kill him. It was an
accident, but blades were drawn. One of
the guards was dead and Simon fled at
that moment.
So this Manfred now thinks that not only
are you responsible for the death of
these beggars for whatever reason, but
you are now also assaulted and killed a
member of the town guard?
>> Yes, father.
>> So they put a warrant out for my arrest
and I have not been to Kitan since.
Although he sort of motions over to
where Arin is patrolling the edge of the
camp. Manfred put a bounty out on me.
Aron there is not the first bounty
hunter to try and come after me. Manfred
sent another group shortly before I came
to Ageston. We bested them, but I fear
there may be more. Then I think that you
should find a way to clear your name.
Would that I could, father. Would that I
could.
But the only way to do that is to go
back to Kitan and confront Manford
directly. Will you have this armed
fellow? Surely he will vouch for you now
that he is your friend. I believe he
will, but I do not know if the word of
one ex bounty hunter is going to be
enough to sway Manfred. Well, in that
case,
it is clear what you must do. Is it? Is
it?
You must find the killer yourself. Find
evidence that it was he and not you that
killed these beggars. Bring him to
justice. I do not want to go anywhere
near the city of Kitan again, father. As
you just said, there was another group
of bounty hunters that came after you.
If Manfred sent one group only a few
days ago, he will send others. You will
never be free of this. To be free of
this burden.
I that I can understand.
Can you understand
why I want you to be free of your
burden? Does he maintain his moment of
clarity here or does he slip back into
his sort of almost ghostly dementia? I
think it's very unlikely that he
maintains his clarity. 08. Oh, he does.
Great. I know what is happening to me,
Simon. I can see it when I look at my
hand.
I know what I am. I do not know why my
spirit was not allowed to ascend to the
heavens to be with the gods after your
mother and I fell.
But
I want to be free of all of this. Son, I
want to join her if I can. What must I
do?
Mor is trying to take us to the location
of your earthly remains. If we can find
your body, will you be able to ascend?
>> I don't know. I feel perhaps that is
true. It is the only chance we have.
Can you remember the way? It was an
extreme yes in his remaining corporeal.
So I think yes, he does remember.
>> Yes, Simon, we are on the right track. I
recognize that twisted oak tree on the
far side of the campsite.
We go northeast for half a day and then
turn right at the great black stone. We
should come to a gorge in the earth
where there was a rope bridge. It is the
rope bridge that broke and caused your
mother and I to fall to our fate. At the
bottom of that gorge,
that is where we will find our
bodies.
Then tomorrow we will make for that
gorge with great haste. Perhaps in the
morning you can help Morlay.
Yes. Yes. I will remember. I will lead
the way. And with that, Simon goes to
sleep. In the morning, does Roland
maintain a connection with the physical
world, no matter how tenuous? I think
it's going to get harder and harder for
him to do that. So, I'm going to call
this No Way. Does he maintain a
connection? 83. He does not. So,
unfortunately, in the morning, Roland is
once again sort of phasing in and out of
corporal reality. And when he wakes,
Simon says to him, "Father, are you
ready to show us the way?" The way to
what, my son?
To your remains, father? Like we spoke
of last night. My remains?
I don't understand.
Where are we?
We're on a hunt, father.
Come, let us get back to it. And they
do.
>> So,
that ends that scene. I think um Simon
was actually sort of largely in control
of that scene. He he learned a lot of
very information. So, I'm going to call
that we're going back down to Chaos
Factor 6. Find Roland's remains to put
him to rest. Well, we now know we've got
very solid directions on how to do it.
So, I think in the morning they're going
to follow Roland's directions.
So, at the beginning of the new scene,
do we have an interrupt or a altered
scene factor? Oh, seven. So, factor just
got down to six. So, no. So, at the end
of the day, following Roland's
directions, Morlay doesn't have to roll.
Simon Orange doesn't even have to roll.
They have Simon's father's own
directions to his own body. And they
make their way through the woods. They
find this large black stone set in the
side of a hill that his father was
talking about. They turn right, they
continue down, and eventually towards
the end of the day, they come to a
gorge. The only difference here is that
there's no uh there's no water at the
bottom. It's just a dry gorge. The gorge
is obviously deep enough to kill someone
if they fall into it. So, is it 50 ft?
Uh I'll call it likely. Is it 50 ft? 64?
Yes, it is. So, it's a 50ft gorge
thereabouts. It's completely overgrown
at the bottom. Lots of fallen wood,
trees, logs, debris. I think it's quite
overgrown down there. Lots of rocks and
stones. I mean, it's a dry rivered
essentially that's had many, many years
of overgrowth obscuring it. So, I don't
think when they when they look to it,
and it's towards the end of the day, but
I don't think it's it's sunset quite
yet, so there is still some afternoon
light filtering in. As they get to this
bridge, Simon's father again still out
of it. I think we determined that Roland
and his wife fell to their deaths on a
on a patch of lifegiving herbs. So, I
think maybe he can see some of those
flowers sticking out from the uh that
have grown up from underneath the
underbrush.
>> Son, this place is familiar to me.
>> They are going to have to climb down
because there's no other way down. Do
they have enough rope to safely get
everybody down? I think there's a good
chance that they do. They're pretty well
kitted out and they have Molay with
them. And Mor knew that they were going
into the woods. He knew this track so he
would have known about this gorge. I got
to say it's it's somewhat likely on case
factor 6 that they have enough supplies
to safely get down rope and things like
this. 59. They do. They have all the
time in the world. The question is, do
they get interrupted by anything? Uh, I
really have no idea. So, I'm going to
roll 50/50 on this. Do they get
interrupted on the way down by anything
sort of bad? Yes, they do. What is the
nature of the thing that interrupts
them? 91. Pursue
49.
Pursuit of failure. Huh. Okay. I think
what happens is as they're making their
way down the gorge, they're using mostly
Mor's supplies. He would have said to
them, "Yes, I will make sure we have
everything we need, the rope and the
climbing supplies, everything." But I
think maybe due the nature of who Mor
is, I think maybe that he hasn't really
tended the rope particularly well. And I
think that as they are climbing down
that illended rope breaks,
it fails, if you will. They are climbing
down this 50-ft gorge down towards this
patch. Something interrupts them and
it's a hazard. The rope breaks. Who is
on the rope when it happens? Let's say
like let's let's determine the order of
who's going down first. I think Simon's
going to go down first. I think Arin
will go after him. Who is it that is on
the rope when it breaks? 1 2 3 4 5.
[Music]
So Simon has already gotten down. He's
He doesn't have to make a climbing roll.
He's got all the time in the world. But
as Arn is coming down, there's this
creek and right where the rope is sort
of going over the edge of the of the
gorge, it begins to rub back and forth
on a bit of jagged stone and the rope
begins to fray. Which means that as Arn
is climbing down the side of this gorge,
the rope breaks and he goes tumbling
down. Does he get a chance to grab
himself in time? I am going to give him
a climbing roll at minus two
because I'm a bastard. But it's a minus
two because it takes him totally by
surprise. Snap. Wow. Does he get a
chance to grab some part of the rock
before he goes spinning down the gorge
perhaps to meet the same fate as Roland
and his wife? Six. Thank goodness. 17,
but it is a success. So, he does not
land like a cat on his feet. The rope
breaks. He goes spinning down, but he's
able to just, you know, shred his
leather gloves on the jagged sides of
the rock wall, but able to slow his
descent as he goes down to the bottom.
Lands basically at Simon's feet. Oh, are
you all right? He rushes over to him.
Yeah. Simon pulls himself up from the
ground. I am all right, but now there is
no safe way down the gorge. Edward puts
his head over the gorge. Hey, you two
all right down there? Yes. Yes, Edward.
We don't have enough rope for the rest
of us to come down. You're on your own
there. Well, they search around for
those herbs that are growing up from the
underbrush. Going to give them notice
rolls. I think the remains are totally
covered up. So, I'm going to give it a
minus one. If he succeeds with a raise,
they find it immediately. If he succeeds
normally, they find it, but they might
be interrupted. And if he fails, they
still find it, but they are definitely
interrupted by something bad. Simon
rolls a four. A success. So, they do
find the body, but they possibly are
interrupted. We'll come back to them in
a second. Simon and Arnner are searching
around. When Simon sees those flowers of
this life-giving herb, he runs over and
he begins to clear away the bracken and
debris. Arin, come over here. Help me
move this log. They move a log, a fallen
log aside. And there, overgrown with
moss, shoots of plants growing through
the rib cage. There he can see two
skeletons,
the remains
of his parents, shoots of vines and
plants growing up through the socket of
the one of the skulls. And Simon sees
this, collapses to his knees because
he's seeing the remains of his parents.
And he looks up and Roland is looking
down. Roland is still out of it as we
determined. Whose remains are those.
He looks at Arin. Oh, and I think in
order for this to work, we need to get
both my father and Mor down here. Yeah,
but how? Their rope is broken. Mor, can
you climb? Can I climb? I don't know. I
will have to ask the fetch out.
Yes, he can. Yes, I can climb. You wish
me to go down there with no rope? Uh,
he's been drinking too all day. A little
bit. So, I think he's a little out of
it. What good can I do down there?
Morade, it is important that you come
down here with my father. Farmer, you
and Morai have to come down here.
There's something you need to see. I am
not much of a climber anymore, son. I'm
far too old for all of that sort of
nonsense. I'll just wait here. Father,
you must come down. He's going to try
and persuade his paw. Come down here.
which he has persuasion a d4
persuade his father to come down to
fail. Can Arn try? He does have
persuasion as well. I'm going to give
him minus one cuz Simon just failed. So,
makes sense. Roland. Simon is right.
There are things down here that only you
can help us with. We need your
expertise. He's also got to do four.
5 - 1 is four. That's a success. Very
well. I will come down with Moralay.
They have to climb down now with no rope
or anything. Before we get to that, we
know that Simon is inter is possibly
interrupted by something. So, as Roland
and Mor are coming down, is Simon and
Arin, are they interrupted by anything?
50/50 KS factor 6. Are they interrupted
by anything sort of badish? 68 on 65.
They are not. I kind of thought
something bad was going to happen here.
They're not interrupted by anything down
here. But does Moralay and the father
get down safely? Again, they're not in a
big rush cuz nothing's interrupting uh
Simon and Arn. I think that they're
going to just go very slow. And what
happens to a ghost if he falls anyway?
It's not like he can die. I'm going to
call it. Do they get down without
incident?
Somewhat likely. 66 is a success.
However, we do have a random event. So
they will get down successfully as
they're climbing down. We have a random
event. The event focus is 83 ambiguous
event. Okay, this is one event that
doesn't necessarily directly affect our
characters in any bad or good way. It's
just sort of a a thing that happens
almost an atmospheric event. And we have
14 abandon
100 abandon.
I think that just means that once Roland
gets down to the bottom of the gorge and
goes up to the body, there is nothing
left on that body that would help him
immediately twig. Oh yeah, that's that's
me, right? Like there's no, you know,
like I was thinking originally maybe
there's like the remains of like the
little rotted remains of like a leather
vest with certain stitching on it that
he would recognize as oh that was mine
or something like that. But no, it's
right up an ambiguous uh abandoned
information. Yeah, I don't think there's
anything in the bodies. So, basically,
this is not going to help. This is not
going to help them to try and convince
Roland that this is him. It's not going
to hurt either cuz it's an ambiguous.
It's not a negative event, but it's not
going to help them. So, Roland comes
down and he looks at these bodies.
Edward alone up top sort of looking
around. They sort of gather around the
the skeleton.
Father,
do you know who that is? The skeletons
of some unfortunate individuals. They
probably fell from up top by the look of
it several years ago. Father,
these remains
are yours.
What are you talking about, son? Father,
try and remember, please. You remembered
last night. You remembered about me in
the present. You remembered what
happened to you and mother in the temple
of Thuran. You must recognize what this
is. I I do not know what you're
referring to, but you are scaring me.
Son Mor, please. Roland,
I hate to be the one to tell you this,
but
you are dead, my friend. Dead?
No, that's impossible. I'm right here.
I'm in front of you. Father,
you died over 10 years ago. You fell
from the top of this bridge. You and
mother both. You have to remember.
The only way you can find rest is by
admitting that you understand that this
skeleton is you. How is this going to
work? I think that Simon and Mor have to
convince Roland that he's dead. We know
that. We know that's the objective. Mor
is going to do a persuade roll. If he
succeeds, that's going to help Simon.
For every success and raise he gets,
he's going to help Simon. So, what does
how how does it how well does it work?
It doesn't work at all. Roland, please.
You must listen to me. Your spirit is
wandering the world when it should be
away from this place. It should be in
the heavens. You must admit this is you.
Mor. of talking madness. I will not hear
any more of this. Father, please. Morlay
is telling the truth. You must admit the
truth. Simon has to persuade him. He has
to persuade him.
Even a simple success will do. But I
think Yeah, I think Morle tried. It
failed to. He's not going to help him.
He's not going to hinder him either.
Yeah. Persuasion roll
five is a success. father. He takes his
hand,
phazing in and out
of reality, hunkers down to the body and
he takes his hand and he goes to put it
on the skeleton.
Roland flinches back, but Simon, please,
father, please trust me. And Roland
allows Simon to put his hand on the
skeleton. And as soon as that happens,
as soon as his hand touches the bones,
his own bones, everything comes flooding
back to him. The hunting trip, the rope
bridge snapping, the wife clinging onto
the side, him desperately trying to
bring her back up, the two of them going
tumbling down and breaking their bodies
on this rocky patch of life-giving
herbs. The puff of pollen as it comes up
and interferes with their death right on
that moment. unmmering their spirits
from their bodies but preventing the
spirits from ascending. Everything comes
back to him. The memory of the temple of
Thuran, the memory of his wife being
experimented on and trapped inside that
mummy body. And he looks at Simon. I
know now. I know what happened here.
Yes, father.
He removes his hand from the skeleton.
He stands up with son. He embraces his
son. Looks him directly in the eye.
>> For me, the hunt is over.
Thank you for freeing me. His body even
now beginning to turn into ethereal soft
strands that begin to waft up on the
breeze. You have helped me, my son.
Relieve my soul.
Now, let me help you. Go to Gaiton.
Clear your name. Do not allow yourself
to be haunted by this accusation any
longer. And
vanish.
And that brings that thread to an end.
Meanwhile,
up top, I have a question about Edward
as he's watching this whole thing and
sort of keeping an eye out to make sure
that nothing unworth happens. Is this
the moment where Cherylyn makes her
return?
He is separated from the group. If
Cherylyn is at all around, she would see
him vulnerable, alone.
Is this the moment where Cherylyn
returns
angered?
50/50 Chaos Factor 6
96 extreme. No, she does not. She is not
coming back for a while. H. A couple of
days later, Simon and his friends arrive
back in Augustine. They sit around the
table eating a simple broth. Simon sits
at the table, silent, contemplating,
toying with a sample of the life-giving
herb that he had clipped from the patch
of ground at the bottom of the gorge.
Well, Simon, you have done it. You have
put your father to rest. How does it
feel?
[Music]
I am saddened.
but
glad as well. And I am glad that you
were there to do it with me, both of
you, on Edbert.
Truly, I could not have done this
without you. I have fulfilled my vow to
you, Simon.
But there is the matter of my own honor.
I hunted you under false pretenses
because I believed that Manfred of
Davdane knew the truth.
He did not.
And you will not be able to go anywhere
in these lands, your own homelands,
without always being hunted and pursued
by Manfred's bounty hunters. Take your
father's advice. Find evidence of this
killer, this real killer, and bring it
to Manfred.
And what of you, Edbert? Will you join
us? Cherylyn's coming back eventually,
Simon. And when she does, I'm going to
need your help to be able to deal with
her.
>> We will find a way to purge you once and
for all of this haunting. I I'll come
with you. It will be dangerous, Simon.
Manford of Davane is a powerful noble
with many friends and contacts and a
great deal of money. We can assume that
to be true because the amount of bounty
hunters he's paid to go after Simon.
Very well. Get some rest. Pack your gear
for in the morning we go to Kitan. And
one way or another,
I will find a way to clear my name.
Thanks so much for watching. And as
always, if you enjoy the show, please do
hit like and subscribe. And we will see
you next time on the next episode of Me,
Myself, and I.
Heat.
[Music]
Hey, heat. Hey, heat.
Heat.
[Music]
Heat.
[Music]
[Music]
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat. N.
[Music]
[Music]
Hello and welcome back once again to Me,
myself and Die. I am as always your
intrepid game master host and player
Trevor Deval. Uh big shout out and
thanks to my friend Wall Ross for
creating that map that you saw in the
introduction. He did that with a little
program called Wonderdraft. It's a
really cool little ctography program you
can check out for yourself at the link
below in the notes. Before we get on
with today's session, a couple things.
One, as always, if you enjoy the show,
please do hit like and subscribe and
keep that bell rung for notifications
because there will not be a new episode
next week if you're watching this in
real time because I have to go to town
for work. I am a professional voice
actor after all and I have to go to
many, many different places to, you
know, pay the bills. So with that in
mind, I don't think we need to do a
major recap. But basically, Simon was
able to put his father Roland Spirit to
rest. And before Roland Spirit left, he
recommended to Simon that he tried to go
back to Kitan and clear his name. If you
recall, Manford of Dubdine was one of
the lords of Kitan who believed that
Simon was the serial killer that was
killing a bunch of beggars in the poor
quarters of the city. That was about a
year ago that Simon fled. And the
warrant for his arrest is still out and
fresh because he he accidentally killed
a guard in his escape as well. So he has
that to contend with as well. Uh Arin
and Edbert are going with him. Edbert is
still free of Cheryl and will be for a
while because of the nature of that
extraordinary role that we had at the
end of last uh session. The three of
them are on their way to Kitan and they
will begin the scene in the city
disguised trying to begin their search
to find evidence to track down the true
killer of Kitan. However, before we get
there, I want to know a few things about
Kitan. And the first thing I want to
know is what does it look like? Well,
this is what it looks like. This is the
city of Kitan. Now, I did not actually
make this map. This map was made by a
person named Wattoo. You guys can check
out his site at the link below. He has
an incredible array of random
generators. Go check out his his site.
He's got a Patreon as well, so if you if
you like his stuff, you should go
support him on that. We have the
fortress on the east, and we have the
neighborhood of Six Cliffs, which is a
wealthy neighborhood around the
fortress. How do I know all this? I'm
just making this up as I go along. It
seems appropriate to me that there would
be wealthy quarters uh outside the the
fortress. We have the Hooks and Murk
Tower, the Hooks in the North, Murk
Tower in the west, which are both poor
quarters. Raven Stair is sort of the
bulk of the city, so that's where you're
going to have most of the residences, as
well as some of the markets and things
and things like this. Storm market in
the south, of course, is a real merchant
quarter. So, that's where you would find
that kind of thing. In terms of its
government and who rules here, the only
thing we know about this so far is that
Manford of Dubdane is in fact a lord of
Kitan. What does that mean? Well, I
think that Kitan is probably like a lot
of medieval cities were. It's a free
town. In other words, it has a charter
to operate independently from the king.
We don't even know who the king is at
this point. We haven't figured out
whether it's a kingdom or an empire or
anything like that. But that's okay. We
can find that out later because I think
what matters for our purposes today is
what is the government of Kitan? I think
it is a council of lords, like a city
council, if you will, except it's not
made up of people that get voted in.
It's made up of local lords that have a
vested interest in the well-being of the
city, which would explain the reason why
Manford adopting is so intent on
capturing Simon cuz he believes that
Simon was guilty of killing all of these
people presumably in his district. The
first question is, is in fact Kiton
ruled by a council of lords? I'm going
to ask our fake chart because that's
what we do. Our chaos factor, by the
way, has gone back down to five. We are
starting sort of fresh. I think it's a
sure thing that the the city of Kitan is
ruled by a council of lords and 47 is a
yes. So, yes, I think that there are
seven lords on the council. Six of them
represent each district and one of them
is sort of the lord mayor, so to speak.
You'll notice I didn't roll for anything
on that. That's just because I'm using
general logic to assign these qualities
to the city based on what feels right to
me in the moment. But we do know that
Manfred is the lord of one of these
districts. I think he is the lord of the
hooks because the the hooks is a pork
quarter and it's the largest pork
quarter. It's bigger than Merk Tower.
Near Sure thing. Yes, he is. Simon
committed this crime a year ago, give or
take. But recently, Manfred sent a
bounty hunter team to come after him.
So, he is still very much interested in
capturing Simon. That means one of two
things as far as I can tell. One, he's
under some pressure from the Lord Mayor,
I guess, from the other lords. That's
possible. Or two, it's personal. Someone
uh in the comments last time suggested
it would be really cool if Manfred's son
was actually the real serial killer and
that uh he was basically uh trying to
fob it off on on Simon. That's a really
cool idea. Uh thanks for that. The
reason why I'm not going to use it is
because at this point I don't want to
know who the killer is. I want to
discover the killer with Simon. Really
cool idea. And if I was running a sort
of traditional game with people around a
table, I would definitely steal that. So
thanks for that. Uh, keep those comments
coming. They're really cool. So, I I
think it's personal. I think the reason
why Manfred is interested in capturing
Simon is because the serial killer
killed a member of his family like his
son. Maybe his son was a member of the
watch or maybe his son just happened to
be in the hooks at a certain time for
whatever reason and got killed by the
serial killer. That would explain the
reason why Manford is so intent on
capturing Simon who's been gone over a
year now, right? So, I think that's what
it's going to be. Let's find out though
cuz you never know. I'm going to call
that very likely. Uh 01 critical. So
yes, absolutely. Manfred's son was
killed by the serial killer and he
absolutely believes that Simon of Argan
was to blame. Manfred's son. Let's give
him a name right now. Haven. Haven of
Dovedane. So scene setup. Simon, Edbert,
and Arn have secreted their way into the
city of Kite. Now they are in disguise
as best they can be. Simon with his cowl
up all the time because he knows that
the town watch is on the lookout for
him. It's a year later, so I don't think
that it's a going concern right at the
moment, but there's a very good chance
that if somebody sees him, especially a
town guard, they might recognize him.
So, there's that. I'm imagining them
going around to various taverns,
beginning their investigation, trying to
track down evidence of the serial
killer. Now, here's a big question I
have. Clearly, the serial killer is no
longer killing. Clearly, he hasn't been
killing for a year. How do I know that?
Because Simon has been gone for a year
and Manfred is still sending out bounty
hunters for him. If the killings were
still going on after Simon had left,
Manfred would know that Simon was
innocent, so he wouldn't be going after
him. Therefore, we know that the serial
killer has not been active for a year.
That's bad for Simon, but it's the only
thing that makes sense in this case. So,
it is very possible that the serial
killer could resurface again and begin
his spree of terror among the poor
quarter of uh the city of Kitan. Time
will tell. That's a question.
Were the killings confined to the hooks?
No idea. 50/50 on KS factor 5 06. So the
serial killer was operating solely in
the hooks. He at up till now he is not
attacked anywhere else. So our guys are
I think what they would do is they would
find a place to stay an inn in the poor
quarter because that's where they would
start their investigation. And I think
that they would split up going around to
the various taverns and businesses, you
know, asking around, has there been any
killings lately? All that kind of stuff.
But before we get there, let's um let's
determine if our scene setup is altered
or modified. Our chaos factor is at
five. So if I roll five or less, it is
in fact modified six. So no, let's find
out the name of the inn in the poor
quarter where our guys are staying. Here
we go. GM's Miscellaney urban dressing
system neutral edition. the creeping
pixie.
I don't think they're at this in. I
think that's where they're staying. I
think that we begin the actual episode
with Simon, Arn, and Edward having split
up to investigate the various taverns,
brothel, these kind of places. You know
what? It's too dangerous for Simon to go
do this. He can't do this part of the
investigation. It's too risky. If
someone sees who he is and recognizes
him, he's in big trouble. Arn probably
has the best chance of doing this. So,
we're going to roll him first. Now, Arn
is ugly. if we recall this. So ugly in
fact that his charisma penalty is minus
two. Going to make his free rise roll to
see if he discovers anything at all that
could be of help. He does not
unfortunately. Uh Edbert Oh, this is
interesting. He has the haunted
hindrance, but he's not currently
haunted.
So I don't think he has that penalty. He
does have the bloodthirsty penalty, but
that only applies if people know his
reputation, which here they do not. So
he has no penalties. Does he succeed?
Oh, he explodes with the 69. That is a
success with the raise. So while Arn is
out canvasing the taverns, Edbert is
canvasing the brothel, the local
brothel. What does Edbert discover? The
serial killer. We know the serial killer
went after beggars. Went after the
poorest of the poor. He didn't go after
prostitutes. He didn't go after
shopkeepers. He went after beggars. Oh.
Uh, is it possible that Edward speaks to
a prostitute who knew one of the beggars
who found some coin and came in for a
little comfort that night? Is that the
case? 97. Extreme no. So, it was not one
of her clients, which it if it's not one
of her clients, then I think it's going
to be someone she was related to. Her
father was killed. It's an extreme no.
Was not her client. So, hopefully the
opposite of a prostitute's client is her
father. Hopefully.
So, we're going to go with that. She
lost her father. So, as Edbert is
talking to this woman who has a name 09,
Alleta. So, he discovers that Alleta
lost her father to the serial killer.
How did he kill his victims? Event
meaning action and subject. How did he
kill his victims? Fight. Fight benefits.
Oh, I know. Lord Manford had set up
various things to help the poor of the
hooks. He had set up soup kitchens. He
had set up, you know, that kind of
stuff. Maybe he's not particularly happy
about being in charge of a poor
district, but we don't know anything
about Manford. Maybe he is, but I think
he set up like soup kitchens, this these
these kind of things. Perhaps there was
a a temple to like a healing goddess or
something there that that helped dole
out food to the various unfortunates of
the of the hooks. The serial killer
targeted people who were partaking in
that. The killer was taking out beggars
as they were leaving places like the
soup kitchens, which meant that the
beggars themselves began to stay away
from those places. That's no good for
Manfred because now the people that are
supposedly under his protection are not
getting food. There's a whole host of
problems that come up with that as well.
So Alleta's father was leaving one of
these soup kitchens one night and he was
killed. Did the serial killer have any
particular signature?
No, he did not. So he killed not
indiscriminately, but the methods which
he employed were all over the place.
Sometimes he strangled people, sometime
he stabbed them, sometimes he, you know,
drowned them, clubbed them over the
head. People died in all different kinds
of ways. So there wasn't, again, we know
that this is not a ritualistic killing.
We know that this killer is not part of
a cult because we determined that a
couple of episodes ago. So we'll just
say that uh we'll just say that her
father was clubbed to death. Alleta,
that's your name, right, Alleta?
>> Yes, it is. You say that your father was
clubbed to death here in the Hooks. Is
there anything else you can tell me
about the nature of his death? All I
know is that he was coming away from the
soup kitchen one night when he was
attacked in an alley.
>> An alley? Do you remember exactly where
he was killed? Does she? I think so. I
think she would. We have alley names.
He's 36. Gorgon Alley.
He was clubbed to death as he was
leaving the soup kitchens. Apparently,
he took a turn down Gorgon Alley and
that's where they found his body the
next day. Gorgon Alley, right, thank
you. Flips her a coin. Are you sure you
have to go so soon? You look like you
could use some company. Uh, that's a
kind offer, but uh, I'd rather not have
you two pull our show, so I think we're
good.
He goes back to the creeping pixie. I
think Aron has already returned. and
informs Simon and Ar of what he has
discovered. They put up their hoods
again and stalk off into the darkness of
the hooks of the poor quarter of the
hooks looking for Gorgon Alley. I don't
think it takes that long to find. They
can ask various locals and things like
this, but they do find Gorgon Alley. I'm
just going to have them do a a notice
roll as they carefully look around for
any kind of clue. I think Arn is going
to roll first because he's he's alert.
So, he's got plus two to his notice,
which is pretty great even though it's
only a d4.
Do they find anything? Seven. So AR
succeeded. Let's check the other guys.
Six. So Edward succeeded. We're looking
for raises here. Basically, notice this
is Simon with five. So they all have
successes, but no raises. So they do
find something of use. If they had got a
raise, it would have been something
really great, but it's not. So they do
find something of use to them. What clue
do they discover? It's an excellent
question. 07
violate
46 food. Violate food. What kind of clue
could they discover in Gorgon Alley?
Violate food? Well, we know that the
father was coming out of a soup kitchen.
Does it have something to do with that?
This is a year ago, remember? I think
that in Gorgon Alley, there was actually
a back entrance to said soup kitchen run
by Lord Manford's people. And I think it
was that doorway where the father was
coming out that he got attacked. So he
was attacked right outside the exit to
the soup kitchen. I think as they're as
they're walking down this alley hunting
for clues, Simon looks up and he sees
light coming from behind this one door
and he goes over to it and he checks the
door. I think that they find that
there's a lot of vantage points on
either side of the door like you know
old crates and barrels all stacked up. a
lot of places for an ambusher to strike
from. And they it immediately is
apparent to them that if if in fact the
father was killed in Gorgon Alley that
this would be the best place to attack
somebody from behind is from this area.
And as they look and they kind of put it
together, all being experienced fighting
men, they realize that wait a minute,
the the best angle of attack is if
someone attacked him right as he was
sort of coming out and around, which
means someone had to have been waiting
for him. I think it's enough for them to
want to investigate further the soup
kitchen themselves. And it does make
sense because they knew that the the
beggars were all being killed outside
soup kitchen. So, of course, they're
going to want to talk to the people
there. So, as they go around to the
front, they sort of knock on the door
and a and a harsh guttural voice comes
from comes from the other side of the
door. We're closed tonight. There's no
more food for you. Come back in the
morning. We're not here for the food,
friend. We want to talk to you about the
murdered beggars last year. Do you know
anything about that? Does he? I mean,
probably. We'll call it very likely.
Does he know anything about that? 88 is
uh is a no. So, this guy doesn't. It's
doubles, but it's over a case factor, so
no random event. The murders. No. No.
No, I don't know anything about that. I
started working here long after that was
all done. If you want to have any
answers about that, you'll have to talk
to Lord Manford's man. He's the one in
charge of the soup kitchen. And what is
this man's name?
His name is Huxley. He'll be back
tomorrow. You can see him then.
>> Very well, thank you. They uh trundle
off into the dark night and head back to
the creeping pixie. When they get back
to their rooms, Simon is obviously not
too excited about wanting to speak to
Manfred's
employee basically because there's a
very good chance that, you know, there
might be a connection there and that
they might know who Simon is. He can't
reveal his face. Arin says, "I do not
think it is wise for you to speak to
this hugely Simon. He may recognize
you." Yes, that is good advice, Anne.
But my instinct tells me that if we're
going to discover who this serial killer
was, our next answers are connected to
that soup kitchen somehow. I must go. If
you insist, just make sure you keep your
hood up. We don't want anyone to see
your face. I think that night they um go
to bed, they get some sleep, they get
some rest, and in the morning they go
back to the soup kitchen. So, that'll be
our next scene. Okay, characters. We've
added the character of Huxley. I think
they were actually largely in control
there. So, I'm going to lower the chaos
down to four. The next morning, they get
up, have a meager breakfast at the
Creeping Pixie, which is composed
largely of thin grl, no doubt, and they
head down back to the soup house to try
and speak to Huxley to see what they can
discover. So, is the scene altered or
interrupted?
It is. It is an altered scene. So, as
they are going to the soup kitchen, I
think the best way to alter this scene
is there is the chance that a town guard
recognizes Simon. Arin tried to warn
Simon about not going and he chose to.
Anyway, they are making their way
through the ramshackle Byzantine
maze-like streets of the Hooks. large
wooden tenement buildings looming over
the streets almost threatening to come
in and collapse creating this real
maze-like feel to it. They pass by
merchants and urchins and all kinds of
merchants and urchins. Uh could be the
next D and D game. Merchants and
urchins. They pass by all the kinds of
things that you would expect in the poor
quarter of town in the shanty town that
is the hooks. Going back to the soup
kitchen to the main entrance this time.
But before they get there, as they're
walking across a a dilapidated sort of
market stall, a guard looks across and
sees just for a second as Simon
basically he's got his cowl up, but as
he's he's walking along, he turns and he
looks behind him. And for just a second,
the guard gets a glimpse of his face.
Here's a question. Is this the guard
that tried to apprehend him a year ago
and had his partner killed? I doubt that
very very very much. I think it's
impossible. Is that the case? 93.
Extreme. No. Okay. This guy has nothing
to do with that guard whatsoever. I
think this guard is new. I think he's a
young guard and I don't think he was
even around a year ago. What are the
odds that this young guard actually
knows enough details about the
description of Simon that he's able to
recognize him based on that?
H I just don't think it's likely.
Oh, 32.
No is the answer. Interesting cuz if the
chaos factor was five instead of four,
that would have been a yes. So, no. The
guard does not recognize him. He sees
Simon's face. I think Simon briefly
makes eye contact with him. The guard
just kind of looks a bit like this.
Simon tenses. His hand goes to his
crossbow underneath his cloak, but the
guard looks at him and then his
attention is taken by some passing
street. So, they are able to continue
unscathed towards the soup kitchen. When
they get there, let's talk about Huxley.
Huxley is Manfred's guy who is there
specifically to oversee the soup
kitchen. So, I don't think he's going to
be a soldier or anything like that. He's
more of a low-level bureaucrat stuck
with his job, which he probably hates,
but we don't really know. Let's find
out. Tell us about Huxley. Huxley is 23,
a logical
Polymath. A logical polymath.
Interesting. A polymath, incidentally,
is someone who knows a lot about a bunch
of different subjects. So, he's he knows
his his stuff for sure. I need to know a
little bit more about old Huxley here.
He's a logical polymath. His motivation
40. Relate
74.
Modesty. Abuse 66. Abuse Wrath. I think
that Huxley is an extremely smart
character who is not prone to displays
of pride or anything like this, but he
has a hair trigger temper. So, I have a
feeling that the rest of the employees
here at the soup kitchen are terrified
of Huxley. So when they get to the soup
kitchen, I think the doors are already
open and there's a long line of beggars
sort of filtering in one by one going up
to the tables having a thin grl soup
ladled into a a simple pottery bowl as
they take it to a long trestle table.
And I think there's a bunch of them.
There's a whole bunch of beggars here.
Simon and company come in. They look
around. Do they see Huxley? Is he in the
room? I'm going to guess that he's
probably not the kind of guy that
actually, you know, doss out the soup.
He's more of a bureaucrat. He's more of
an administrator than that. I'm going to
say it's unlikely that he's actually in
the room. 89. He is not in the room. In
fact, it's an extreme no. He is
currently unavailable for some reason.
So, they speak to the local soup workers
there. I'm afraid Lord Huxley is
indisposed at the moment. You'll have to
come back later. But might I inquire as
to what this is about? Please, my good
man. It is very important that we speak
to him. uh persuasion roll an audience
so to speak two two fail I am terribly
sorry but when Lord Huxley is indisposed
he is not to be disturbed under any
circumstances and you know I think that
Simon can see the fear in this guy's
eyes and he gets a sense right away I
think this is a serious character not to
be screwed with please as my good friend
here says it is very important we speak
with this Huxley he basically has to
explode on this role he does not as I
said Lord Huxley is unavailable You will
have to come back later. It was an
extreme no I rolled. So I I don't think
he's here at all. I think he's off I
think he's off doing some work with
Manfred himself right now. Is that the
case? I'm going to call that likely. Is
it the case? Yes, it is. Lord Huxley is
currently at Lord Manfred's manor. He
will not be back today. You will have to
try again tomorrow. And the worker goes
back to dulling out the soup. And I
think the three of them sort of pull
back a little bit.
Perhaps there is something here of
interest to us. on Edbert, have a walk
around the room. See what you can find.
The three of them move off amongst the
beggars. I think that Arn is actually
looking for any kind of clues, anything
of interest in the common room itself.
Is there something about the table or
the walls or the kitchen or the the the
little window area where the soup is
doled from where he can see the kitchens
behind? Is there anything of interest at
all? While he does that, I think that
both Edward and Simon are going around
talking to the beggars to see if they
know anything. Arn is going to do a
notice roll. He's really good, but I'm
going to give him a penalty because I
don't think there's much to find here in
the room. So, I'm going to give him a
penalty of two, which cancels his plus
two alertness. So, this is a straightup
notice roll for him. Does he notice
anything of interest? Oh, and he's only
rolling a d4. Anything of interest? Does
AR find anything? Maybe seven. So he
finds something of interest. What is it
that Arin finds in the room of interest
to their investigation? 7711 is deceive
emotions. Interesting. I think the room
is a large rectangular room with a bunch
of long trestle tables where these
beggars are now sitting eating their
their thin grl for breakfast basically.
But they are being served by there's a
number of uh windows on the back wall
and those windows lead to the kitchen
and there's a couple of workers that are
on the other side of the windows doling
out the the soup to people as they go
up. Arn can see that he can see the
workers. He can also see past the
workers into the kitchen. Arn notices
that the worker they just spoke to is
moving back towards the kitchen area.
But as he does so, he looks back over
his shoulder at Simon and he's got a
look of severe consternation on his
face. Like something's really bothering
him. This is a problem. Of course, Aaron
clocks that guy. Let's find out if Simon
and Edbert come up with anything by
talking to these people. This is a
Streetwise role. Again, Edward is not
going to be afflicted by his haunted
situ, his haunted hindrance. I'm going
to give Simon the penalty to his
outsider hindrance here, just because
he's trying to be very careful. He's got
his cloak up. He looks a little sketchy.
Yeah, I'm going to give him the penalty
for sure. Uh, nope. Fail. Edward does
have street wise, but only at four. He's
not going to have his penalty.
Oh, exploding four six. So, that is a
success. I think it's very likely that
some of these beggars knew some of the
people that got killed. The question is
in talking to these beggars, is Edbert
able to detect any pattern at all? Any
pattern in their stories? Any patterns
in the killings? Anything at all that
would provide some other clue? It wasn't
a success with a raise, so I was going
to call it likely, but I think it's just
going to be somewhat likely now. Does he
detect a pattern in the beggar stories?
20 is a success. He does detect a
pattern. As he's talking to all of these
other beggars, they all tell him
basically the same thing that their
friends, the other beggars, were all
killed either leaving the soup kitchens
or or very close to the soup kitchens.
They also tell them that the beggars
were killed in a multitude of ways. They
were clubbed. They were stabbed. There
didn't seem to be any rhyme or reason to
that. The the attacks were savage,
brutal, and bloody. Really just awful.
And the the the word of of these
killings spread through the hooks like
wildfire. What is the nature of the
pattern that he discovers about the
killings based on everything that we
know right now? 88. Control 01. Control
of goals. The killer, while savage and
brutal, was always very careful. always
very much in control, always knew
exactly when and where to strike
beggars.
And he always knew when the beggars were
going to be alone. So much so that the
only way he could have successfully
killed all of these people is if he had
working knowledge of the kitchen itself.
I just had a thought. Did the killer in
fact work at the soup kitchens?
Is that how
I mean, the the the attacks all happened
at the soup kitchens. Is it possible
that the killer was one of Manfred's men
that was working at the soup kitchens?
Unlikely, just because that'd be too
easy.
Unlikely. Oh my god. Extreme yes. Okay,
so
extreme yes. We know for a fact the
killer worked at the soup kitchens. if
he had an understanding of the times
that the kitchen was open, the exits and
entrances, the surrounding alleyways,
all of these things is what Edward is
able to piece together to form this
pattern that yes, absolutely it's very,
very likely that the killer worked in
these kitchens. And as Edward is telling
Simon this, Arn is looking over at that
worker who even now is looking back at
Simon. He goes back in the kitchen and
he whispers something to one of the
other workers which Arn can see through
the window and he's he's very agitated
about something and he looks over and I
think what he's saying to the worker is
these men are up to no good and we need
to call the guards. We need to get these
mens out of here right now. I think
that's what he's saying. Is that what
he's saying?
Uh, yes, that is what he's saying. So,
the guy that they were talking to goes
up to one of the other employees and
whispers something to that employee.
That employee sort of looks over at our
trio, nods hurriedly, and vanishes
through the back door. Arn sees this and
he immediately clocks over at Simon and
Edbert and he motions his head and he
hightails it out the front door to try
and run around and catch up with the
person in the back before he can go off
and do whatever he's going to do.
Meanwhile, as this happens, Simon and
Edward sort of stand up and they see the
worker looking at them, glaring at them.
They approach the window to try and
speak to him as they notice that he's
totally glaring at them. But as they
come up, he sort of, you know, his eyes
go wide. He turns and disappears into
the kitchen, vanishing. Edward says,
"Something's wrong with that guy. We
should go after him." Yes, I think
you're right. They split up looking for
the entrance to the kitchen. Do they
find it? Well, it's not a very big room.
I'm going to say it's very likely that
one of them finds it before the guy can
vanish entirely. 94. No, they don't. So,
that doesn't mean they don't find the
entrance. It means that by the time they
find the entrance to the kitchen and
barrel into the kitchens, these other
workers like, "Hey, you can't be in
here." They look around, but the guy is
nowhere to be seen. Meanwhile, in the
back alley, Arn rushes back to try and
catch this dude who is running out the
back alley. He doesn't know anything
about what's going on with this guy or
where he's going or anything like that,
but it's obviously not a good thing.
Does he catch him in time?
50/50. Does AR catch the guy and
basically stop him from going to grab
the guards? He does not. Arin runs
around the alley. He looks for the guy
nowhere to be seen. He walks out into
one of the maze-like streets and there
he can see the guy has found that other
young guardsman from before. and he's
pointing back to the soup house and he's
agitated and he's very very animatedly,
you know, pointing and and and I think
Arin could overhear him saying, "The
there's men in in the soup kitchens.
They're up no good." Arin's like,
"Uh-oh." Arin runs back to the soup
kitchens. Does he get there in time to
warn Simon and Edbert before the guard
shows up? I'm going to make this a
competing role. Okay, his agility versus
the guard's agility. So, let's do the
guard's agility first. I'm just going to
make him a bog standard guard. What is
his agility role? Four. So AR has to
beat a four or else the guard is able to
get to the soup kitchen before he does.
Aron rolls a seven. I thought that was
something else. So he rolls a seven.
He's able to burst into the soup
kitchen. Run back. He doesn't see Simon
or Edward anywhere, but he then he
notices him through the window of the
the soup kitchens. He runs into the
kitchen. We've got to get out of here
now. The guards are on their way. They
seem to think that we're up to no good.
Oh blast. Let's go. Let's go now. and
they hight tail it out of the soup
kitchen. As they hustle through the
streets back to the creeping pixie, Arin
says to them, "I saw the look on the
face of that man we spoke to when we
first came in. He knows something,
Simon. Somehow, I believe that he could
be key to all of this." Well, then we're
going to have to find a way to get to
him, find out what he knows and what
he's hiding. But that will take us to
the end of the scene. Uh, new thread as
well. The killer we've determined worked
at the soup house. The worker whose name
they didn't get. But let's get a
description of this guy because we
didn't actually give him a description.
A course. So he's he's literally coarse.
He's got like all kinds of stubble. He's
really unckempt, you know, a big bald
patch, scraggly hair
cleric. He's also bearing a holy symbol
around his neck. I just realized we I
had had mentioned before that uh it's
possible that this soup kitchen was was
working in conjunction with one of the
temples of the goddess of healing. So
it's possible that this course priest is
in fact one of the acolytes of the
temple of healing. We don't know what
the god or goddess is of healing. One to
three. It is a goddess. Oh, it's a god
of healing. The god of healing. Eloia.
The god of healing. So the holy symbol
that they saw around his neck is
definitely the god is definitely the
symbol of Elia. So ask at temple of
illosia about this guy. So that is our
new thread. That is our new character
and their chaos factor has gone back up
to five. And that brings us to the end
of this episode. Thanks so much for
watching and don't forget to hit like
and subscribe if you enjoy the show.
Remember that next week as well I will
not have an episode up because I'm out
of town working. But uh do tune in after
that when we pick up with Simon and
company as they go to the temple of
Eloia to find out any more about this
coarse priest who eluded them at the
soup kitchens and perhaps find the next
clue which may lead them to the true
serial killer so that Simon can finally
clear his name. Thanks again and we will
see you next time on Me, Myself, and
Die.
Well, hello again and welcome back once
again to Me, Myself, and Die. I am, as
always, your intrepid game master,
player, and host, Trevor Deval. If you
like the show, don't forget to hit like
and subscribe and to hit that
notification bell button down below.
When last we left Simon of Augustan,
they had arrived in the city of Kitan in
order to investigate the murders of the
beggars that have been going on in the
vicinity of the Hooks district, which is
a district that Manford of Dovedane is
lord of. This serial killer was
responsible about a year ago for killing
a bunch of people in a a bunch of
beggars in a in a very very brutal
fashion in a in a multitude of fashions,
stabbings and beatings and stragglings
and drownings and all that kind of
stuff. Simon was blamed for it by the
guards who found him in the vicinity of
some of the bodies and uh he
accidentally killed one of the guards
trying to defend himself and had to
flee. When our guys arrived in Kitan,
they discovered that the killer had been
uh taking out the beggars outside of
soup kitchens, which are run by Lord
Manford, as well as the clergy of Aloia,
the god of healing and sickness and all
that kind of stuff. They figured out
that the killer must have worked in one
of the soup kitchens. They uh got in a
bit of a confrontation with one of the
workers there, this scraggly looking
fellow who wore a holy symbol of Aloia
around his neck. But before they could
get any further information out of him,
he kind of sent one of the other workers
to go fetch the guards and then himself
fled into the city. So we're going to
start our scene with our guys going
through the streets of Kitan looking for
the temple of Aloia to try and see if
they could find out any more information
about this coarse priest who fled from
them at the soup kitchens. Archa Factor
is back at 5. First of all, is the scene
interrupted or altered? Let's find out.
Five or less? 10. So, no, the scene
begins as normal with our people showing
up to the Temple of Illosia. Now, one of
our viewers, Alan, had a really
interesting idea that I want to test
right now to see if um if it's true.
That idea was that it is perhaps
possible that Isabelle and Stratton, the
two or two of the four bounty hunters
that were sent by Manfred to track down
Simon and company. The idea was that
these bounty hunters escaped their
bonds, which Simon, you know, assumed
they would, but went back to Kitan to
report to Lord Manfred that Simon was
about, and possibly to give not only an
updated description of Simon, but also
descriptions of his accompllices on
Calapunki and Edbert. So, let's see if
that's the case. You know what? I'm just
going to give this a 50/50 chance on
Chaos Factor 5 means this is a 50%
chance. 48. Oh, barely. So yes, as our
guys are going through the city towards
the temple of Aloia, they turn and they
see posted up on many, many different
walls is a very disturbing sight. Arn
sees it first. He puts his hand out on
Simon's shoulder and he points to the
poster. They sort of go up slowly to the
poster and there they can see, you know,
hastily scrolled likenesses
of Arn, Edbert, and Simon right there.
this is a problem. Now kind of looks
around and says, "Well, that would
explain the reason why the workers in
the soup kitchens fled in order to get
the guards. They must have recognized
either myself or Edward, as you of
course had your cowl up the whole time."
Well, this complicates things, an
for starters, the two of you best put
your hoods up. Manfred now knows that
Simon with two accompllices, including
Arn, the bounty hunter he originally
sent out after him, are back in this
part of the world. They've crossed the
mountains
possibly back in Kite. So they're going
to be very surreptitious. They're going
to make their way through the streets
with their cowls up trying to be as
nondescript as possible. They reach the
temple of Elia because they the scene
was not interrupted or altered. So they
in fact get there without interruption.
I don't think it's a big austere thing
with giant gilded columns or anything
like that. Because Aloia is the god of
healing, it stands to reason that this
is also a de facto hospital in a way. So
I think that you probably have several
wings of the temple that are dedicated
specifically to healing the sick. So
there's going to be, you know, it's
going to be a fairly sizable building,
but not particularly fancy. Uh, also by
that logic, I think that the priests of
Aloia, the priests and priestesses
probably dress very, very simply, you
know, sort of homespun kind of garb. And
Simon goes up to one of the priests
who's walking around. Excuse me,
brother. We'll call him brother. That's
a good title. Uh, do you have a moment
to speak? Uh, yes, of course. Uh, of
course, please come this way. He sort of
leads him off to a small fountain area
kind of thing. Tell me, does the Temple
of Aloia help Lord Manfred in the
running of the soup kitchens and the
hooks? Yes. Yes, we send personnel there
to uh assist in the feeding of the poor.
Can you tell me anything about
a fellow who works there? scraggly
beard, bald patch, wears a symbol of a
loia quite prominently around his neck.
I think we determined last episode that
this guy is in fact an acolyte here. So,
uh, does this priest know of him? Uh,
we'll say very likely. Does this priest
know of him? 79. Yes, he does. Yes, I
recognize the description that is
brother.
[Music]
Random tables right here.
94. Waverly. Yes, that sounds very much
like brother Waverly. Tell me, how long
has he worked at the temple? Has Brother
Waverly worked at the soup kitchens for
over a year? I think that's very likely.
03 extreme. Yes. Well, Brother Waverly
has uh he was actually one of the first
acolytes we sent to the soup kitchens
when Lord Manfred decreed that he would
be establishing them. So he has intimate
knowledge of the operations of the soup
kitchens. Well, yes, I would imagine he
does. What does Simon learn about
brother Waverly from this?
61.
Oppress
15. The innocent. Oppress the innocent.
God.
Okay. What does that mean? So, Brother
Waverly oppresses the innocent.
What's he doing as an acolyte of this
temple? Ah,
brother Waverly came to us under rather
unfortunate circumstances. He was a
captured bandit. Lord Manfred, however,
upon realizing his affinity for the
healing arts, decided instead of
executing him to
sentence him to a life of service to
help the poor of the district.
And so he brought him to us to oversee
his rehabilitation. He has served the
temple very well the entire time he's
been here. He was one of the first ones
we decided to send to the soup kitchens
when Lord Manfred mandated their
existence. Tell me, brother, do you know
anything about Waverly's past. I mean,
his criminal past before he came here to
work with you. Well, Manfred did not
give a great amount of detail, but
perhaps he knows something. Does the
priest know something about the details
of Waverly's past? Uh, I'd say it's
probably unlikely.
No, I'm afraid Lord Manfred kept any
details about Waverly's past to himself.
And brother Waverly has never
volunteered any information, but it is
the standard practice of the Church of
Eloia to wipe the slate clean when
someone comes to us. Your past is
irrelevant. All that we care about is
your future. Well, can you tell me where
Brother Waverly resides? Does he reside
here at the temple? I mean, probably.
He's basically been sentenced to
service. So, I think it's a nearure
thing that Waverly's residence is here
at the Temple of Aloia 57 is a yes.
Brother Waverly does keep his residence
here at the temple. Can you take me to
the rooms? Now, this is getting a little
much. I mean, these three strangers show
up and start asking questions about
Waverly. I think that this priest is
going to have to, you know, be swayed a
little bit here or persuaded
in order to uh go along further with
this. So, I'm going to give Simon a
persuasion role. Let's see if this uh
priest is willing to help out. Oh. Oh.
Looking good. Five. Success. Well, I
suppose it wouldn't be too much trouble.
Uh might I ask your names? Here's the
thing. There is a tiny possibility
because we just established that the
wanted posters are up with the uh
descriptions. Now, those wanted posters
wouldn't have been up very long, right?
Like probably a couple days at the most.
So, I don't think that the general
description of our party would be super
well known to everybody. There is a
chance, however, that the priest does
recognize at least one of them. I think
it's impossible. It's just it's too it's
too unlikely, but there's a chance. 51.
No, it's okay. So, he does not recognize
Simon accompany from the water posters,
but he does take Simon up the stairway
uh to the second level to the very
meager residences of the acolytes there.
Um they probably sleep in common rooms.
I'm pictur like a monastery. I I'm I'm
imagining like a big common room.
Everyone has a single uh cot with a
small chest at at the base of the bed.
There's there's almost no privacy here.
So, the the this priest leads Simon to
Brother Waverly's bed. Now, Simon's
going to ask a question that's going to
definitely require a persuasion role. I
know this sounds unusual, brother, but
um would it be too much to ask if we had
a look inside that chest? Oh, that is
most unusual.
We here at the Church of Aloia do not
encourage private possessions, but
nonetheless,
someone's private things are still
theirs. I would feel very uncomfortable
giving access to you. Who are you again?
We are friends. We only ask because we
are trying to rule out Brother Waverly
from being a suspect in a crime. Oh. Oh
my. Still.
Also, I haven't been giving the outsider
penalty here because we've established
that Simon's outsider penalty to his
charisma checks or to his social
interaction checks only count when
someone is aware of his pariah status,
which this priest is not cuz he did not
recognize him from the wanted posters.
Uh, but I am going to give him a minus
two to this.
Oh, we have an exploding four. 7 - 2 is
five. It's a success. A crime, you say?
Oh, well, very well. and he leans over
and opens up the chest. Now, Brother
Waverly, he's an ex- bandit who had some
healing skill. Manfred recognized that
skill and apparently Manfred decided
instead of executing him, he was going
to put him to work with the Church of
Aloia to help the poor. Once again, we
see Manford actually looks like a fairly
decent guy. I mean, he's set up these
soup kitchens for the poor. He's he's
now instead of executing a bandit, he's
decided to use his skills to help that
poor. I think Manford is actually not
the villain that perhaps we may have uh
thought he was up to this point. What do
they find in the chest? So, we are going
now to uh the book of random tables
three
because there's a great little thing
here called items in a chest. So, let's
find out. We have 85. We have
we have a mummified badger,
two bottles of wine, and we have finally
a shortsord covered in dried blood.
Simon picks this up, turns to the
priest. The priest's eyes go wide. Oh.
Oh my.
Do you mind if we take this, brother?
This could be evidence.
>> Yes, he already succeeded in his
persuade ro.
That's I I I had no idea. What are the
crimes that you suspected brother
Waverly of? I'd rather not go into that
right at the moment, brother. Tell me,
when do you normally expect Brother
Waverly to return? Well, he would
normally return after his shift at the
soup kitchen. So, I would imagine by
dusk. When he returns tonight, try and
make sure he doesn't leave. We'd like to
come back and speak to him. So, they
take this shortsord.
Do they care about the mummified badger?
I don't think they're going to take the
mummified badger. I think they're just
going to note it. What the hell is that?
Well, you know what? Is there anything
that might
show a connection to the murders because
of the mummified badger?
I'm going to say no way. That's too
bizarre. It's too weird. No. 90. Uh,
extra extreme. No. So, this thing I I
think what this was is that Waverly had
when he was on the road with the
bandits, he had a pet badger and the
badger got killed and he had it stuffed
cuz he couldn't say goodbye to it. Oh,
poor Waverly.
But the answer is no. So, no. But they
do have a short sword covered in dry
blood. They take that sword back to the
creeping pixie. They're sitting around a
table and there's other patrons in here
as well, obviously. And I don't think
they stay at the table. I think they go
upstairs to their to their room, but
they go up there and they look at this
sword. Dried blood. That could mean a
lot of things. Here's a question. Uh,
does any of our guys have the uh healing
skill? Yes, Simon has it. So, Simon's
the only one that has it. So, Simon
takes this sword, the short sword, and
very carefully begins to examine that
blood. He wants to know if he can
determine how old the blood is. Anything
at all. I don't know what he's going to
discover. Healing roll five. Success.
So, he does determine something about
the blood. How old is the blood? 50/50.
Is the blood a year old?
No, the blood is more than a year old
and it's doubles, which means random
event. What is the event focus as
they're in the room examining the sword?
PC positive
dessert
prison. Okay, I know what this is. There
is a knock on the door. They turn. They
brandish weapons. Obviously, there's a
muffled voice from beyond the door.
>> Simon of Augustan.
I need to speak with you. Identify
yourself. And I think he motions for
Edbert to go up, you know, pulling his
broadsword and standing by the door, you
know, taking a a ready position to
strike. The voice says, "I'm a friend."
Arin Simon share a look. Simon pulls the
crossbow, loads it, keeps it trained on
the door. He motions to Arin to go over
and slowly open the door, which he does.
Standing there in the doorway, hands up
in supplication, is Stratton the bounty
hunter. Forgive me. Might I come in? As
you can see, I am unarmed. And sure
enough, neither of his swords are there.
Stratton,
I'm surprised to see you come in. And he
keeps the crossbow trained on him, but
Stratton comes in, hands still up.
Orange shuts the door behind him.
Forgive this intrusion, Simon, if I may
call you Simon. You have no doubt
noticed all of the wanted posters around
town with your likenesses on it.
>> Yes, we most certainly did. After you
left us bound to the tree with very
loose knots, and I appreciate that.
Isabelle and I returned to the city.
Isabelle was very keen on reporting what
had happened. I however
remembered my vow to you that I would no
longer pursue you. She went directly to
Lord Banfred and uh gave him all of your
descriptions. And what are you doing
here now, Stratton? Please don't take
this the wrong way, but uh I have been
following you three since you left the
Creeping Pixie. Following us, this
better be good. Stratton, I noticed you
were inquiring with the workers of the
soup kitchens. Very simply, Simon, I
want to tell you that I know Brother
Waverly from the old days. Before I
started working with Isabel, I was a
member of his gang of bandits.
I know him rather well. Do you? Then you
should know that we are investigating
him for his connection to the murder of
these beggars a year ago. Does Stratton
have any reason to believe that Waverly
is tied up in these murders?
60. No.
I can tell you, Simon, that you're
barking up the wrong tree. Waverly was
many things, but a coldblooded killer?
No. He had devoted himself to the
healing arts. The only reason why he was
with the bandit gang at all was because
he had fallen on hard times. If you are
thinking that he had anything to do with
these murders, I can assure you he did
not. Well, if that is the case, then
kindly explain this. And he produces the
bloodied shortsord. This was found in
Waverly's personal possessions at the
temple. Does Stratton recognize? Does
Does he know? Does he know the answer?
Somewhat likely.
42. He does. Faverly was no killer, but
he did fight with a bandit group for
some time. That was his blade. It is no
doubt covered with the blood of someone
who tried to accost him after he left
the bandit group. Yes, he did leave the
bandit group and it was only then that
he was apprehended by Lord Manfred. He
was not even actively a bandit at the
time he was captured. He was just a
lonely man on the run at the wrong place
at the wrong time. And you expect us to
just accept your word?
>> You have no reason not to accept my
word. I kept it to you on the river
banks. I said I would not come after you
and I have not. In fact, I tried to stop
Isabelle from doing so. I am here even
now keeping my word to you. Can you
prove anything of what you say? Yes, as
a matter of fact, I can. That blade that
you have in your hand there, I gave him
that blade. He was so eager to leave the
bandit camp, he was about to do so
without any weapons. I knew that that
would be suicide, so I gave him that
sword. If you look on the hilt, you will
see a small marking etched underneath
the cross guard. It is a spreading oak
tree, my personal symbol. Simon takes
the blade, looks. Sure enough, etched
underneath the cross piece, a little oak
symbol. We were going to go to the
temple of Aloia later to question
Waverly.
I think you should come with us. Very
well. I will do just that.
So I think um they wait till after dark.
They take Stratton with them and they go
back to the temple of Aloia and
they find Waverly there and they
question him with Stratton. I'm not
going to go into a big thing here, but
I'm just going to resolve this with a
roll. Is everything Stratton says the
truth? Is he telling him the truth?
I think it's very likely he is.
54 on 85. Yeah, Waverly's terrified of
them when they approach, but he explains
to them the reason why he fled is
because he recognized their faces from
the wanted posters. So, Waverly,
unckempt course priest that he is, is
telling the truth. The reason why he had
the blade is because it was a gift from
Stratton in the bandit camp before he
left. He in fact had nothing to do with
the murders. But
we know that the murderer worked in one
of the soup kitchens and we know that
Waverly
was there from the beginning. So Waverly
would have known everybody who worked
there. Simon apologizes for the for
startling him and gives him back his
sword. Brother Waverly, we are trying to
ascertain the true identity of the
killer. Lord Manfred, the man that you
serve, thinks that I am responsible, but
I assure you I am not. I am here merely
to clear my name. Will you help me? Only
because Stratton is there, this was a PC
positive after all. So, let's make sure
that it is a positive. I think because
Stratton is there, Waverly is willing to
help Simon
in terms of the any information he has
that might help him. This this all comes
about as a result of a PC positive
random scene. So, I'm going to say that
it's very likely that brother Waverly
remembers someone suspicious working in
the soup kitchens and this could provide
a lead. 08 on 16 extreme. Yes. So,
Waverly says, "I do remember there was
someone suspicious.
I didn't think much about it at the
time, but uh well, can you describe
him?" Yes, I can. Let me consult Un.
He was a despondent
vagrant.
He was actually from among the ranks of
the beggars himself. He came in and he
wanted to help his friends on the street
as much as he could. Of course, as a
good servant of Aloia, I easily accepted
his offer. Please, Brother Waverly, can
you give me a physical description of
this person? And a name would help, too.
But let's get the physical description
first. This is random tables four. Now
for NPC physical descriptions.
Yes, he was of average height, muscular,
had long flowing hair. Ar reacts to
this. It's good thing he was a man
because I have this terrible phobia
about women with long flowing hair if
you remember from episodes past. Huh.
And what was this man's name?
Well, he went by
Thornton. You said that he was
suspicious to you. Why?
>> Well, despondent vagrant, he was always
in low spirits. He always seemed to have
a profound lack of hope. And yet, he
always came to the soup kitchens every
day. Every single day. What else made
you suspicious of him?
celebrate
32 plans.
>> When Lord Manfred had told us that the
soup kitchens were working out very
well, he said that he was going to
establish a few more in the district.
The beggar Thornton was
extraordinarily happy at this. It was
strange because he was normally so
morose, so hopeless, but Thornton was
almost gleeful, celebratory, if you
will. He couldn't be happier of Lord
Manford's plans. Anything specifically
he did, his actions that made you
suspicious?
29. Take 60. Misfortune. Take
misfortune. I said that he was a
despondent sort, a morose sort. He had a
particular quirk about him. He would uh
he would always be fascinated by the
circumstances under which
someone was reduced to penury. He would
spend a great deal of time among amongst
the rest of the beggars in the soup
kitchen sitting with them and asking
them all of the details about how they
came to lose their fortunes or or how
they came to live a life of utter and
abject poverty. It was shortly after
this that the first of the beggars
started to disappear. And you don't know
where he resides now, where we could
find him?
>> Well, no, but I'm sure if you asked
around with the beggars of the hooks,
they might be able to tell you more
information. Very well. I thank you,
brother Waverly, and again, my apologies
for startling you. And they leave and
they go back to the creeping pixie.
Let's end that scene there. It's a big
long one. Simon, Edbert, and Arn are all
wanted. Uh, we update our list. The
course priest, his name is Brother
Waverly, and we know that he's innocent.
So, Stratton came here to basically make
good on his word. You know, he said that
I'm not going to go after you anymore.
He saw Isabelle going to going to
undermine the oath that he made and he
tried to warn him as best he could. What
happens with Stratton now? I'm not sure
if he's going to stick around or not,
but we'll find out later. And we add the
thread of Ask the Beggars about
Thornton. So, that's the thread. Uh
that's the thread list, the character
list, and the chaos factor. I think the
chaos factor goes up in this case
because
we thought we were on to something with
this brother Waverly. We totally
thought, "Oh, yeah. this guy. I mean,
Arnold said it himself. I think this guy
is key. And well, he might still wind up
being key, but not the way that we
thought. I'm going to raise the chaos
factor to six. And now we're going to go
into the next scene where the next
morning our guys are going into the
slums of the hooks among the beggars
trying to investigate anything they
could find out about this mysterious
Thornton fellow who basically vanished a
year ago. Well, we don't know if he
vanished a year ago. We know that he
stopped working at the soup kitchens a
year ago. So first of all, is the scene
altered or interrupted? A case factor is
65 means yes, it is in fact altered. The
first thing that comes to mind is that
some of the beggars they are talking to
actually
recognize Arn and Edbert
from those wanted posters. We'll say
it's Edbert. So, as Edward is talking,
you know, I think the three of them sort
of split up a little bit throughout the
slums and they spend the mo the majority
of that morning going amongst the
beggars, going amongst their their the
various areas of the hooks, asking
different people anything, describing
Thornton, asking him for him by name,
anything at all that these people can
tell or remember about this guy. But as
they're doing this, Edbert gets
recognized by one of the beggars he's
talking to, whose eyes go wide with
fear. And in fact, I think as Edward is
is talking to this uh this this beggar,
this beggar's kind of looking at him and
he he kind of sees and you know, if this
was a film, we'd rack focus behind
Edbert to see the the likeness of Edbert
on a poster right behind him and then
the beggar kind of backs off and runs
through the street and Edbert turns and
he sees the poster, realizes what's
happening. Ah, and he goes after the
beggar to try and stop him from
informing the watch or whatever the
beggar is going to do. So, we're going
to do a simple chase here. It's going to
be competing agility tests, but I'm
going to give the beggar a bonus because
in the mazeike streets and alleyways of
the slums of the hooks, this beggar
knows the area very well and there are
many, many, many little twists and turns
that he could easily lose his pursuer.
So, I'm going to give him a plus two to
his agility roll. Edbert's going to have
to beat four. Edward is chasing after
this beggar, leaping over carts, you
know, smashing into people, pushing out
of the way, out of the way kind of
thing. He's going after this beggar.
He's not rolling with anything special.
And he rolls a six and a two is an
eight. He succeeds with a raise cuz the
target number was four. And he grabs the
beggar and throws him into a side alley
and, you know, gets right up in his
face. He says, "Listen, I didn't do
anything." All right, you understand?
Now, I want to know about this Thornton
fell. You tell me everything you know
about him. He's clearly going to do an
intimidate here. D6 intimidation
five. So, this is an opposed roll
against the beggar's spirit. I don't
think the beggar's going to have a big
spirit. I'm going to give him a d4. So,
he's basically going to explode. He does
not. So, the beggar kind of cowers.
Please, please, don't hurt me. Don't
hurt me. This beggar is going to spill
the beans. Anything he knows about
Thornton? Does he know anything about
this Thornton? I don't know. 50/50.
40. He does. He does know something.
What does he know about Thornton? He
knows 88. Control. He knows 26.
control the physical. Well, that makes
sense with what we know about him being
a big muscular guy. Please don't hurt
me, sir. I know something about the
bloke you you were saying. Long flowing
hair, really big muscles.
>> Yeah, that's the guy. What do you know
about him?
>> I know all of us in this district, sir,
was terrified of him with the muscles of
his. We We wondered why he wasn't one of
Lord Manfred's guards. He had the
muscles for it. Does he learn anything
else? I don't think so. He didn't
succeed with a raise. That was the
altered scene. Meanwhile, Simon and Aren
are basically doing the same kind of
thing. They're questioning. They're just
going to use their skills to see if they
learn anything that can provide a lead
to this Thornton. Simon is rolling a
persuade roll. He rolls. No. So, he's
he's unable to determine anything about
Thornton or his whereabouts. What about
Ar has investigating a street wise?
Aron's going to do a street wise on this
to see if they know anything about this
Thornton fella. Oh, look at that.
He is ugly, however. So, he is going to
get the minus two. Let us not forget
that. However, we have 10 - 2 is a
success with a raise. It's about damn
time. He's going to learn something of
particular importance here from the
criminal element because he's doing a
street wise. It is 69.
Ruin.
ruin
vehicle. That is the site or very near
there is the site of an old ruined docks
district that fell into disrepair, fell
into to to disuse. It's small. There's
nobody that resides there anymore. But
there's like a whole bunch of old uh
graneries there. You know, ruined, as I
said, ruined docks, ruined granaries,
ruined boatous, this kind of stuff. Arin
discovers that this long-haired, big,
muscular fella who called himself
Thornton, who was always an odd chap can
apparently be found there in the ruins
of one particular ship, like a
riverboat, basically. He goes back to
the creeping pixie to meet back up with
Edbert and with Simon. They sit around
the table discussing what has happened.
I believe I know where we can find this
Thornton.
>> You discovered his location?
>> Apparently, he can be found amongst the
ruins of an old riverboat at a disused
docks to the south of Storm Market. I
know that area. It's utterly deserted
from what I recall. That is what the
beggars told me as well. If he is still
there, then I think it's time we paid
him a visit. Simon, every beggar I spoke
to today, they all said the same thing.
This guy was as strong as an ax. If
we're going to go confront him, we best
be careful. He could probably ring our
necks like chickens. Well, then we shall
have to approach with caution.
And approach with caution, they will.
But not till next time, for this is the
end of the scene and the end of the
episode. Thanks so much for watching.
And as always, if you enjoyed the show,
please do hit like and subscribe. And
join us next time when Simon goes down
to the abandoned docks to continue his
investigation into the serial killer of
Kitan and hopefully find evidence enough
to clear his name once and for all.
Thanks so much for joining us here and
we will see you next time on Me, Myself,
and Die.
Welcome back once again to Me, Myself,
and Die. I am, as always, your intrepid
GM host and player, Trevor Dval. Thanks
so much for watching, and as always, if
you enjoy the show, please do hit like
and subscribe. We are on episode 21 of
The Adventures of Simon of Argistan and
Company. And when last we left, they had
made their way down or were about to
make their way down to the abandoned
docks in the southwestern part of the
city of Kiton because they had
discovered that there was a fellow who
worked in these soup kitchens who was a
fellow beggar by the name of Thornton
who was a large hulking long-haired man
who really enjoyed listening to people's
stories of misery, how they became
beggars in the first place, things like
Yes. Very, very odd. But they did
discover that he could be found down in
a riverboat whose name was, we will go
to our GM's miscellane uh urban dressing
here,
the Leaky Barrel.
The Leaky Barrel is a destroyed river
boat on the docks area. Now, as I said,
this area is utterly deserted. There's
nobody around. It's completely
dilapidated. It's filled with ruined
boat houses. Uh there's the the remains
of old ships and boats kind of like
piled up against the moorings. Just
after nightfall, our team comes down and
are sort of walking along the docks here
when they see the remains of the leaky
barrel here. Our chaos factor is six,
which means we need to know if our scene
is interrupted or uh altered in any way.
Eight. So no, it is not. So they make
their way to the docks as planned. I
said at the very beginning of this this
little mystery thing that I don't want
to know anything about Thornton until
Simon does. But we are now at a point
where I must find out something. Now I
have a theory. I have a theory about
what Thornon is, who Thornton is, his
his the reasons for for doing what he he
does, the whole bit. I don't want to
reveal that theory to you right now. Uh,
but what I'm going to do is I'm gonna
roll and if I get a yes, then I'll know
what it is and I'll sort of reveal it as
we go to make because this is the show
after all. I got to make it dramatic. Is
my theory about Thornton isn't correct.
I mean, if I wanted to, I could say,
"Oh, yes, it has to be. It's a sure
thing." I'm not going to do that,
though. I'm going to say it's very
likely. Chaos Factor 6, very likely. Is
my theory about Thornton correct? 31.
Yes, it is. So stay tuned to find out
what that is. Our gang makes their way
along the docks. As they do, Stratton
has come with them as well. Some of you
had actually uh suggested that Stratton
should should come with the party, and I
kind of like that idea. It makes sense
within the context of the story. So
Stratton is going to join them on this
particular section of the adventure.
We'll see what happens to him after this
is all over, if in fact anyone survives.
Okay. As they're making their way along
the docks, the old dilapidated boards
are creaking under the weight of their
boots. Uh the cries of gulls are out in
the uh in the river, but even those are
kind of swallowed up by the enveloping
mist that creeps along the river and
threatens to engulf the docks
themselves. They're going by the light
of a single torch that Simon carries in
his in his left hand, trying to
illuminate the dimness of the docks as
they move along. off to their left, they
can see the remains of an old boat
house. Uh possibly an old
administrator's office, something like
that. But the the ceiling is is caved in
over the weight of time. Uh the walls
are buckling, the wood is rotting, there
is a terrible, terrible smell, as you
can see here. They move along and the
effluent coming from uh the the city
sewers pours openly into the river. It
is uh quite awful the place. uh as they
get closer to the riverboat itself. I'm
just going to uh make a few random
dressing rolls from this uh dock section
of this book just to give us a little
more flavor. The dock shivers as a large
vessel badly steered thuds into its
side. Well, obviously there are no
active ships here, but I think what that
tells us is that the leaky barrel in
fact ran a ground up on the side of the
docks here. So I think that it's
probably more like this as we see kind
of it sort of ran around like that. So
it's its rear end is kind of jutting
into the into the river maybe even like
uh half sunk. So this whole thing sort
of slants down into the water like this.
And as they move up
are they making any attempt to be
silent? I think they are. Actually, what
I'm going to do, I'm just going to take
the lowest stealth roll because when
dealing with a group of PCs like this, I
find it's easier just to take their
lowest stealth roll. And if they
succeed, you can assume that everyone
else has succeeded, too. So, that's what
I'm going to do. Who has the lowest
stealth? Simon is d8. So, it's actually
Edward who has the lowest, but he is a
wild card. So, going to roll the wild
die. How does he do? Six exploded. I
think we're going to be perfectly fine.
Six, 12, uh, 16. So, that's success with
several raises. They are absolutely
quiet, even considering the creaky
boards as they're moving along the
docks. But they do manage to make their
way up the gang plank, looking for any
signs of this Thornton fella. Now, all
they have to go on at this point is a
description. Large hulking man, brutish
man with long flowing hair. There's
going to be an entrance to the lower
decks here. I'm just going to do a quick
notice roll for the gang. Again, going
to do the same thing. I'm going to roll
the lowest notice if they succeed. And
they succeed. Oh, there's an exploder.
Four.
Four. Well, success with the raise
already. Uh, yeah. So, success with a
raise. Wow, this is going well so far.
Good. They do in fact find the entrance
to the lower decks. And I think it's a
hatch over here with a like a rope
ladder that kind of goes down. And
again, the rope ladder are all frayed
and in danger of snapping at any time,
but they very quietly make their way
across the rigging like this, stepping
over the remains of like fishing gear
and big piles of thick, sturdy rope that
again is is also beginning to rot under
the decaying uh qualities of time. And I
think they slowly begin to climb down
the ladder very quietly. All kinds of
raises. No need to roll again. There's
like a rope ladder that goes down to a a
small set of stairs. Basically, like a
little switchback kind of thing. What do
they find inside? Well, it's going to be
the hold. And I think the hold of this
river barge is filled with crates and
barrels. I think there's crates and
barrels everywhere in various states of
decay and disrepair. There's wooden
planks everywhere. Uh, and again,
through it all, you could hear the creek
of the wood as the water of the river
laps up against the dilapidated sides of
the ship outside.
All they have to go on is their their
flickering torch light. So there's
shadows playing in every corner and on
every wall. There is in fact something
in this boat that I have determined with
that first roll I made. My question is
does this something notice them? Oh,
14 is a success with two raises. I think
they notice each other as Simon and
company their feet creaking on the
boards coming down. Simon leveling his
crossbow. I think at the far side
of the boat there is a sound and
emerging from beyond the barrels is
a man.
A large hulking long-haired man. He's
dressed in rags. hair is all matted with
dirt and you know uh bits of straw and
it's just it's it's he he looks a wreck.
Simon can clearly see that he has a
large wound, a festering wound, a wound
that is not healed around the area of
his heart. And as Simon sort of takes a
closer look in the gloom of the light,
he can see that there's a a bit of a
shaft of wood almost sticking out of it.
Almost like uh like a like someone uh
took a sharp stick and drove it into
this guy's chest and it broke off or
something like that. Thornton, I
presume. And this Thornton, for that is
in fact who it is, says, "Get away from
this place, stranger, before it is too
late." Are you Thornton, the beggar who
worked at the soup kitchens a year ago?
Answer me now. Does he answer? I don't
think he does, but I'm going to give
Simon a persuasion test.
Four. I'm going to oppose. I'm going to
make this an oppose check.
Oh, four. Tie. Nothing done. So,
Thornton does not answer the question,
but he also does not totally ignore him.
He basically puts his hand up and I
think he warns him again. I said you
must leave this place before it is too
late. You know not what you'll tangle
with. Thornton is huge. He's not tall.
huge cuz we determined before from the
previous uh session that he was of
average height but he has massive
muscles and you can you know our guys
can see even now he's just like rippling
with muscles. I'm giving you one chance
Thornton come with us and answer some
questions. We're going to put a marker
over here to represent
Thornton there. He says one more time.
>> Strangers leave this place now. I will
not be able to control it much longer. I
think Simon steps into the room allowing
Edward to come down. And as soon as he
does that, Thornton shakes his head and
sort of bellows in rage.
As his eyes begin to glow red, his
hulking body becomes even more brutish.
As you we could hear the sound of bones
creaking and breaking, long hideous
talons emerging from the ends of his
fingers, his eyes, as I said, growing
red and and and a small ridge of horns
bursting underneath the long flowing
hair. The hair which sort of falls down
over his quickly becoming beastial face,
almost obscuring it entirely, almost
like the girl from the ring. Ooh,
creepy. And we're going to replace this
guy with this guy right there as he
grows hulking to easily 7 ft tall. The
back of his head almost almost hitting
the the floorboards of the deck above.
And he bellows in rage. I go with fear.
And we go to initiative. So Simon goes
first. He he redraws cards of five or
less because he's quick. Simon is on
nine. The allies are on seven and
Thornton
is on queen.
This hulking demonic monstrosity
bats aside the barrels and the crates
and comes lurching towards
Simon,
his eyes wide with fear. Does Thornton
just attack him outright or does he do
the thing that I know he can do which
will be revealed to you very shortly.
Does he attack Simon outright?
In this case, he's just transformed. I
think it's going to be unlikely attack
Simon outright. 65.
I'm 50, which means he does not attack
Simon outright. He He comes right up to
Simon like he's about to attack. His
glowing red eyes sort of focus and
narrow on Simon. And he says to Simon in
this hideous, wavering, almost
otherworldly voice, "Give to your
water."
>> And Simon feels his will to live being
immediately drained from him as this
thing begins to sap his spirit. This is
an opposed spirit role. Thornton is a
wild card. His spirit is D10. This is
the target number that Simon has to
beat. Oh, lucky. Three. Simon's spirit
is a D6.
He does. So, he does not have his spirit
drained from him. His will to live is
intact. But he
shakes. And that brings us to him. He
cannot fire the crossbow because he is
he's into hand to hand range with with
Thornton. He is going to get the hell
out of dodge. He is going to do a
withdraw action and take the defend
which increases his parry by two. He's
going to withdraw all the way back here
behind these crates. Now, this thing has
a D12
fighting. It gets a free attack with a
seven. Simon's parry is seven, which
means he'll be hit. Bang. As Simon is
withdrawing back, this thing launches
forward with its massive meaty claws.
Oh, this is bad. It has natural weapons.
It strength plus D4. Its strength is d12
plus two. So, I roll a d12 and a d4. And
I add plus two to this. Oh my god. 15
damage against Simon's toughness of six.
Six shakes him. 10 wounds him. 14 wounds
him for two. He is shaken with two
wounds as he makes his way back this
way. He has to do a soak roll. He's
going to spend his white Benny here and
make a vigor test. Come on, buddy. Soak,
soak, soak, soak, soak. Oh, he exploded.
Okay, so seven. So it's not a raise. So
he soaks one. He is shaken and wounded
for one. That was Simon of the Allies.
Well, Arn fires a a blast. He fires a
his boat. Wild card as well. He's
looking for force. Oh, that is a
exploder with a nine. That is a hit with
a raise. Thorn will roll 3d6
uh against toughness 10. Very, very,
very tough. And he will Oh my god. He
will do three. Oh nothing. The arrow
snaps off. Edbert as this is happening
leaps towards the creature. Oh, you know
he could do something interesting
though. He could do a wild attack which
gives him plus two fighting, plus two
damage, but he's also minus two parry
until his next action. Is he going to do
that? He is bloodthirsty. I think yes, I
think Edbert's going to do a wild
attack. Plus two to hit. He will roll a
six against this thing's parry of eight.
Edbert is going to spend a benny to
reroll that. Spend one of the NPC
bennies cuz that was a terrible roll.
What about now? Six. Still not enough.
Oh, he is unable to with his wild
attack. And he is at minus two parry
right now. Thornton
draws his two blades. Ah, leaps down the
stairs and attacks twice. Did I say
Thornton? Anyway, Stratton. Stratton
comes in to attack. His fighting is D8.
I'm going to roll one of each. He is not
a wild card. So, the black is going to
be the rapier. Uh the rapier plus one.
The white is going to be daggered minus
one. Oh boy. Nothing done. The swords
are easily easily cast aside. We go back
to a new round. Simon, who is shaken and
wounded, is on seven. Our allies are on
king. And Thornton is on Jack. Our
allies go first. Okay. Thank goodness.
Uh Edbert is no longer at a minus to his
parry because he's back to a new action.
Uh but he's going to do another wild
attack. So he will still be minus two
parry. He's really counting on this plus
two. Oh my god. He's unable to hit
again. Okay, Stratton. The black is the
rapier at plus one. Eight will hit with
his rapier. Thank goodness. Not with a
raise, however. D6 and a D4 against
toughness 10. Not likely three. Nothing
done. cannot puncture the hide of this
creature. That was straten orange fires
d10 shooting and he is going to roll a
four which is a hit. Think
six damage does nothing. The arrow
glances off that other shaft of wood
sticking out of this thing's wound
already. That was allies. Now we go to
this thing. Thornton. This thing is
definitely going to attack Thornton.
This demonic creature that he is
actually has the improved frenzy trait,
which means he makes two attacks for
every one attack
at no penalty. So he rolls two attacks.
He's going to put one in on Edward who's
at minus two to parry because of his
wild attack and one on Thornton. So he
attacks at a d12 and he is a wild card.
So he rolls one wild die with this
attack. The black one is on Edbert. The
white one is on Stratton. What does he
roll? Okay. Well, uh, he will miss
Edbert, but he will hit Stratton. Pow!
He hits Stratton with 57.
Stratton's toughness
is six. Stratton is only shaken by that
blow.
Bang! With the frenzied attack not doing
anything to Edbert. Thank goodness.
Simon has to make a spirit roll. I'm not
going to spend one of his bennies to
immediately get out of it. I'm going to
try his spirit roll first. Come on,
buddy. He is at minus one as well
because he is wounded. So, everything is
minus one. Four is a success, but he
can't do anything that round, but he is
up, which brings us to new round. Simon
is on eight. Allies are on five. That is
on Oh my god, this is terrible.
The black D12 is on Edbert who is at
minus two parry. And the white is on
Stratton. Seven will hit Edbert because
Edbert's parry is only five right now.
And eight will also hit Stratton whose
parry is eight. Okay, Edbert gets hit.
Four. Oh boy. Come on. Roll low. Nine.
11 on toughness. Nine is going to shake
Edbert. And the damage to Stratton.
Oh god. 14 on Stratton. He's already
shaken. He's an extra. He doesn't suffer
wounds. He is incapacitated. Not
necessarily dead, but he is bang. His
body goes slammed up against the walls
of the ship and collapses into
unconsciousness. We hope cuz Edward is
shaken. It moves uh with its free
movement up to Arn. We go down to Simon.
Here's the thing. Simon has already seen
this thing sticking out of the thing's
chest. This bit of wood. Does he make
any inference here that could help him?
I'm going to give him a general smarts
role at D8. General smarts role. Does he
think that that is significant in any
way? He does not. So, he shoots with his
D8 magical crossbow here. He's got minus
one now cuz he is wounded as he levels
the crossbow. He has not moved. So, he's
firing to plus two cuz he has marksman
minus one. So, he's firing at plus one.
M 8
uh four is 12 + one is 13. That is a hit
with a raise. So we have 3d6 damage for
the crossbow plus one because of the
plus one damage against toughness 10
5 8 9 10. Okay, he manages to shake
Thornton just by the skin of his teeth.
Which brings us to our allies. Edbert,
get up, buddy. Get up. Your spirit is
D4. Do you break shaken? Do you break
shaken? You do not break shaken. Arn,
what are you going to do? This guy's
right in front of you, staggered against
the wall. So, he takes a few steps up
and fires his bow at D10, hoping to
capitalize on Simon's excellently placed
shot. So, Aren steps back, pulls a 10.
Exploder is going to be 18. That's
definitely a hit with a raise.
6 7 8 Exploder Six 14
19 versus toughness 10. He's already
shaken. 14 is a raise. 18 is a raise.
He's already shaken. So, he suffers two
wounds. However, Thornton has bennies.
He has two bennies. He's going to spend
one to soak those two wounds. Thornton's
going to roll a vigor of D12 and a D6.
He's a wild card to soak the two wounds.
Oh my god, he succeeds. Oh no, he
succeeds with a raise. If he soaks all
the wounds from an attack, he removes
his shaking condition, too, even from a
previous source. Soaked and back on his
feet. Oh, terrible. He's not wounded and
he's not shaken, but it cost him a Bendy
to do that. That was Arn, which brings
us to a new round. Oh boy. Oh boy.
Stratton is down. Edward is still
shaken. Simon is wounded. this thing.
Thon is fine. Simon goes on eight.
Allies on nine. Thornton on the Joker.
Oh my god. Oh my god. Thornton does
everything at plus two. Thon. He doesn't
really have to leap up the stairs. He
just moves forward and attacks Arn with
a frenzied attack, which means he
attacks twice with 2d12s. He's on the
Joker at plus two. He also gets his wild
eye and he Oh my god. Oh my god. The
wild and the fighting explodes. So 16.
Okay, so the first attack hits him with
a raise. The second attack is as a
normal hit. Brutal toughness is six. Oh
boy. Uh Andy's plus two to everything he
does. That's that's 17 damage. Six
shakes him. 10 wounds him. 14 is two
wounds. He's taken two wounds from that
source and he's shaken. And the second
attack, the second attack.
Oh my god. Plus two as well because of
the Joker. 15. 10 is a third wound. 14
is a fourth wound. Ar is incapacitated.
Make an immediate vigor roll for AR.
Five is a success. We roll on the injury
table. The injury goes away when all
wounds are healed. What is the injury he
suffers? the leg. He gains the lame
hindrance until he is healed. But now it
comes down to allies. Edbert, get up,
man. Get up. Roll your spirit. Get up,
Edbert. Yes. Six plus seven is not a
raise, but he does break his shake,
which brings us to Simon. Simon, oh my
god, this is bad news. Stratton is down.
Arn is down. Edward is staggering from
the massive blow he's taken. Simon, I'm
going to give him another smarts roll
because I'm going to give him a break
here.
Six. Yes, success. He notices that this
thing is sticking out of the the
creature's chest is the only visible
wound on it whatsoever. He thinks maybe
if I target that, it'll somehow help.
So, he is going to do that. It is a
minus4 to hit this. So, he is rolling at
minus5 because of his wound penalty. He
reloads. Fires. He's got to explode.
He's got to explode.
Six. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. 6 + 5 is 11
minus 4
is seven, which is not a hit with a
raise, but it is a hit. The bolt flies
through the air and buries itself deep
into the exact spot where this thing had
taken its only wound from before, from
some source before.
As the arrow blasts into it, the thing's
eyes go wide with fear. Going to make a
damage roll now. Plus one for the
crossbow, plus four for the called shot.
And there is special things that happen
with the call shot too as I've already
decided from that very first roll I
made.
This is important.
10 uh 10 + 5 15 and four is 19 versus
toughness 10. 10 shakes 14 wounds 18
wounds twice. Now here's the thing. I
had made a note right here. I don't know
if you can read my chicken scratch.
special can only be killed by targeting
the heart at minus 4. So he all he had
to do was wound it. He just had to do a
wound. He did two wounds as the crossbow
bolt from Stonebolt flies through,
burying itself in to the exact spot
where it had been wounded before by
as we flash back to the alley outside of
the soup kitchens a year ago where
Alleta's father, Alleta, the prostitute
that Edward had spoken to, her father
had been killed by Thornton, by the
serial killer. Alleta's father was the
last person to be killed by Thornton
because he was able by some fluke wound
Thornton in exactly the spot where
Thornton needed to be wounded in order
to basically reduce his power to
effectively nothing until he could heal
from it which took him one year which is
the reason why he had not committed any
more murders. This exact wound caused by
Alleta's father still festering after
all this time is what Simon has now just
put a crossbow bolt through as the
creature roars in pain and the body of
Thornton transforms once again into a
humansized creature. Simon, wounded as
he is, stumbles up to him with
Thornton's dying gasping breaths. He
looks at Simon and he says, "What?"
I think he gives the explanation for
what happens. The explanation that I
rolled for at the very very beginning
and and told you that I tell you what it
is. Well, I'm telling you what it is
right now. He looks at Simon and says to
him, blood pouring out of his mouth, the
light quickly fading from his eyes. All
I wanted was was to be a member of the
watch. I had the size for it. I I wanted
to serve the city. I went to speak to
Haven of Dovedane.
Lord Manford's son, but he spat in my
face. He told me that the watch was here
to keep the streets clean of filth like
me. I I vowed revenge and I found a way
to summon dark powers
and I sold myself to those powers. I
hunted down Haven of Dovedane and slew
him.
But the powers were not satisfied. They
demanded the life force of my brothers
and sisters. They demanded that I take
into myself their stories of misery
where the creature would feed on their
misery and their life's blood. It made
me do terrible things.
But you have freed me. You have freed
me. And the light fades from his eyes.
Edbert gets to his feet. Simon. Arn. And
Simon turns and sees Arn slumped. his
leg twisted at an unnatural angle. Lying
there barely barely conscious. Also, he
sees Stratton lying there. We know that
Aron is alive. He's at minus three
wounds, but he's not going to die. Let's
deal with AR first. So, Simon goes up.
He pulls out his healer's kit. He does
have healing, thank goodness, to remove
the incapacitated state. Does he do it?
He's at minus one cuz of his own wounds.
Six explode. 9 - 1 is 8. is he does it
with a raise. Oh, thank God. So, he
manages to to rouse Arn out of
unconsciousness. Ar, you know, his eyes
open. Oh, my leg. Okie dokie. Simon's
attempt to heal AR.
He's going to spend a Benny. Going to
spend a Benny on this to roll. That
leaves him with one Benny.
Five minus four. He's unable to heal
Arn. So, Arn is going to be lame until
he is healed. Simon hobbles h over to
Stratton. We make vigor rolls for
Stratton, who is an extra. If he fails
this role,
he was killed.
Oh no.
Simon goes up to Stratton and as he goes
to sort of rouse him, Stratton's neck
falls at an unnatural angle. Clearly
broken. Stratton
is dead. Arin says, "We should at least
search this place, Simon." They begin to
search the area. Arn is too screwed up
to search. He's just lying clutching his
leg in pain, but Edbert and Simon search
the boat. Does he find anything? Uh, no,
he does not. Does Edbert see anything?
Edbert's notice is also D4. Does he find
anything? Oh, exploding four. Five. He
does. I think that this thing had taken
trophies.
Grizzly trophies of its victims. Is that
the case? 72. Yes. So, it did take
trophies and that is what Edward finds.
Here's a question. Did the thing keep
any trophies of Haven of Dovedane,
Manfred's son? I think it's also very
likely it did. 54. Yes. Edbert finds
this heap of trophies buried among the
straw and wreckage of the barrels and
such. And I think among the trophies, he
finds
a helmet. Obviously, a guardsman's
helmet. And as he sort of flips it
around, he can see along the crest of
the helmet. Sure enough, there is an
insignia, a code of arms, if you will.
He brings us over to Simon. What? What
do you make of this? Simon recognizes
the code of arms immediately. It is the
symbol of House Dove Day.
We should take this with us. Do you
think that this will constitute enough
evidence to prove that you had nothing
to do with the murders? Is there any
other evidence in the boat that could
help clear Simon's name? Oh, this thing.
So, so Thornton had made a pact with the
dark powers. Is there any evidence of
that here? Is there any like occult text
that he was using to summon this
creature or anything like that? Uh, you
know what? I think where else would it
be? I think I'm going to call this
likely. Likely in the answer 73 on 85 is
a yes. So, Edbert also finds an occult
book. And as he looks in the book, he
flips it open and immediately he can
tell experienced soldier that he is that
the words, the strange arcane words, the
spidery looking letters
are written in dried blood and that the
vellum that it's written on is in fact
human skin. And as Edward takes a quick
look inside the book, he can see in a
strange spidery script certain details
that seem to very much implicate
Thornton as having entered into some
demonic pact with some dark powers.
He slams the book shut. Simon, I think I
might have found something. So they have
the helmet and they have the book. They
hobble out of the boat. Simon takes the
body of Stratton up with Edbert's help
up to the top deck. They wrap him in
whatever sort of uh uh like bits of sail
they can find. Edbert takes the body and
holds it over the edge of the ship over
the water. Simon, religious guy that he
is, says a few words over the body, a
prayer to send Stratton's soul on his
way. And Edbert
releases the body flashes sinking to the
bottom of the bay. They make their way
back to the creeping pixie and that ends
our scene. Find Thornon and deal with
him. Yes, taken care of. The chaos
factor goes up to seven. They get back
to the creeping pixie. Wounded,
bloodied, bruised. Wanted posters are
everywhere. They know that it's only a
matter of time before somebody
recognizes them and reports them to the
watch. They have no time to lose. They
know that they must go directly to Lord
Manfred's manor in the citadel of the
city, bearing the evidence they have and
hope that they can prove Simon's
innocence. They make their way through
the streets of Kita. On their way to the
eastern part of the city in the
neighborhood of Six Cliffs to the
fortress they go, cloaks up, cowls up.
But as they get closer to the fortress,
cloaked individuals would be somewhat
conspicuous. So I think that at that
point, Simon would basically throw off
the cloak and you know, Arin and Edbert
would do the same and they stride down
the street. Do they get recognized by
anyone who reports them to the watch
before they get to the Six Cliffs
neighborhood? Somewhat likely.
34. Yes, they do. So, as they're walking
through the streets, there's a number of
people talking behind their hands,
pointing at them and sort of pointing at
the uh the the wanted posters that are
everywhere as well. And sure enough, as
they make their way into the Six Cliffs
neighborhood, there you can see the the
the huge manor houses of all of the the
Council of Lords. I I imagine like
there's a large courtyard, a massive
massive courtyard with a giant statue of
perhaps the founder of of the city of
Kitan. And as they come around walking
into that square, there's a line of
guards waiting for them. And as they
walk up, the guard's spears go down all
in formation. The leader of the guards,
I think, steps forward. Simon of
Augustan, you are under arrest. Throw
down your weapons and come peacefully. I
will come peacefully, good soldier, but
on one condition. I demand an audience
with Lord Manford of Dove Day. He who
has sought my head this past year.
I am coming now to prove my innocence of
the crimes for which I have been
accused. Do the guards
allow this? This is going to come down
to a persuade roll.
Six
and six is 12. 13 is a success with two
raises. The guard looks at him, motions
to some of his men. As they're about to
take their stuff, Simon basically puts
his hand on his pack and he says, "You
may search this if you like, but I will
require this for my audience with Lord
Dav." Because he succeeded with two
raises. The guard kind of quickly opens
the pack, glances through it, doesn't
really see anything like weapons. That's
what he's look been looking for, like
daggers or anything like that. Sees no
weapons. He sort of nods, motions to the
guards, and they are taken off to the
guard barracks to await the pleasure of
Lord Manford of Dovedane. Sometime
later, Arn, Edbert, and Simon are all
sitting in separate cells, but they're
joined. They're joined by the bar so
they can all freely communicate with
each other. And they sit there and they
wait, and I think they wait for some
time till finally Edward says, "I hope
you know what you're doing, Simon. If
Lord Manford doesn't accept your
evidence, I don't see any reason why he
wouldn't put your head on the chopping
block right away.
You sure about this? I've never been
sure about anything in my life, Edward.
Why start now? I have faith in Simon
here. He has demonstrated his honor many
times in the past. If he does so now in
Lord Manfred's presence, Manfred will
have no choice but to accept the truth.
I hope you're right. For all our sakes,
I think back on everything we have been
through, on all of the trials and
tribulations we have suffered together.
For a very long time, I thought when I
lost my only friend in the world,
Vilborg, that I would never again make
allies.
As true as Vilborg was, if this is
indeed the end of the road for us, if
Manford does not accept the evidence I
intend to lay at his feet, proving my
innocence, and if he does in fact put my
head on the chopping block, I can think
of no other men that I would rather
spend my last moments with.
Thank you for everything.
Hey, Simon. And thank you. Edward speaks
for me as well, Simon.
>> And so they wait for Lord Manfred to
summon them to the trial that could
determine once and for all Simon's
innocence or guilt. Thank you so much
for watching and as always, don't forget
to hit like and subscribe, and we will
see you next time on Me, Myself, and
Die.
[Music]
Well, hello and welcome back once again
to Me, Myself, and Die. I am as always
your intre GM player and host Trevor
Devel. Thanks so much for watching and
as always if you enjoy the show please
do like hit and subscribe.
So here we are, the big day, the trial
of Simon of Argan to determine his guilt
or innocence with regards to the serial
killings of the beggars of the hooks
ruled over by Manfred of Dubdane and
also the death of the the city guard,
the town watch that Simon killed while
trying to escape because they thought
that he was the killer. I've given that
guard a name, by the way, Liam. That was
randomly determined by our handy dandy
random chart. Before we begin, they've
leveled up. Yay.
And at the risk of sounding like I'm
metagaming, what everyone has actually
taken as their advance is persuasion.
Cuz this is going to be important. So,
how that worked out is that Simon's
persuade actually went up to a d8.
Although, he still has the minus two
outsider penalty for all persuasion
roles because, well, he's suspected of
being a killer, so they don't want to
believe him. Edbert's persuasion went up
to six. So, not great. Orange persuasion
went up to eight. He is also ugly which
gives him a minus two. The other thing I
want to talk about before we begin.
There's two things. Uh the first is that
I made a little mistake last time. Uh
kind of a crucial mistake and it was a
savage worldbased mistake and the error
was pointed out by GM Randalfo the
gamer. So normally I would never thank
anyone for rules lawyering me and
telling me I got something wrong but in
this case it's kind of important. When
Arn went down from the big hit, he had
to do a vigor roll to see if he
survived.
He succeeded. He rolled a five. He
should have actually been at a minus
three for that because he had just taken
three wounds. I factored in the wound
penalties on Simon's healing role to uh
to to heal him later, but I didn't
factor in to that vigor there. So, what
that means is I can't redcon it. can't
go back in time and have him roll again.
But in the interest of serving fairness,
I am going to remove a Benny from the
NPC pool from today's session. Sort of
assuming that he would have spent it
last time. So, there has to be some sort
of failure condition. And that's what
I've decided to do. I'm going to remove
a Benny, which is, believe me, it's not
a good thing. This they're going to need
every single one of these bennies. And
the other thing I'm going to do is
because he took the hit to the leg, I'm
going to give it a chance that that
wound is actually permanent. I'm going
to roll that right now. Archa factor is
seven. Is Arn's leg permanently lame?
Which in Savage World's terms would mean
that he's minus two to his pace and he
rolls a D4 running down instead of a D6.
I'm going to say it's unlikely just cuz
I want to give the poor guy a chance.
55. It is permanent. Wow. There was a
55% chance. Arn's leg is permanently
maimed from that attack. So, no matter
what happens when he heals up, he will
always be lame in the lake. I hope
you're happy, GM Randalfo. I hope you're
happy. No, I'm just kidding. I I I
appreciate uh the comments. Uh we do
want to keep everything above board
here. We want to keep everything legal
as much as we can. I have a lot to deal
with here. There's there's characters
and there's roles and there's background
and there's all kinds of stuff and
there's six cameras going. So, I have a
lot to deal with, but I try and keep
things on uh on track as much as
possible. So, here's what's going to
happen. These are
the successes that Simon needs in order
to be acquitted of the crimes. When
someone presents their case and makes a
persuasion role to the court, okay, if
if they're arguing in favor of Simon,
then any success and raise they get is
going to bump that number up down the
scale towards, you know, a quiddle. If
they fail, it goes the other way.
So the more numbers in the positive side
of things, the better the outcome of the
trial. I will tell you this right now
that if it remains at zero for whatever
reason, Simon of Argistan will be
executed.
Let's get on with it. Simon and company
are led in manacles and leg chains.
probably they are led into the
gargantuan court of law that is being
overseen by the council of lords of
Kitan. The lord mayor is on the council
but I think the trial itself is being
conducted by lordfred of dovedane and
there will be the other six counselors
there as well. Now we need to know a
little bit about Manfred. We do know
some things about him already. We know
that he is very much concerned about the
welfare of his own citizens. He
established soup kitchens for the poor
in his own district. That's a big thing.
I I just I we need to know a little bit
more. So, I'm going to go to O and we're
going to consult Un here and we're going
to see what we get. So, what what is his
motivation
87 compose
and
60
justice compose justice? Well, that
actually bodess very well in Simon's
favor. That says to me that Manfred of
Dubdane is a kind of person who put
definitely puts the rule of law ahead of
his own personal concerns which is
important because his son was killed by
the serial killer and he thinks Simon is
a serial killer. So the fact that his
sort of motivation is composed justice I
think that bodess well for Simon in this
case. Okay, what else do we know about
him?
Six.
Interact
21.
the wealthy. Interact with the wealthy.
Well, that actually makes sense. He is,
you know, he's sitting on the council of
lords and I think interact with the
wealthy. You know what I think that
means? I think also that bodess well for
Simon because he is a guy who believes
in justice but the composure of justice
to ensure that that that decorum is
maintained and that everything goes
according to the rule of law interact
with the wealthy. I think that he is
going to absolutely demand from the rest
of the council of lords that they do not
let their personal feelings get in the
way either. I I think he's very very
hard but fair I think which is again I
think in this case it probably bodess
well for Simon. They are led into the
courtroom. The charges are read against
Simon of Argan and the charges go down
and they list the names of the beggars
who were killed including Alleta's
father. His name is last on the list
because as we determined last episode he
was last to be killed. And of course,
the the first name on that list is Haven
of Doved. Manford's son, who we
determined last episode was the first to
die by the hands of Thornton. But it's a
long list of names. And I think that
with every name that is read, there's a
a gasp from the crowd from the from the
gallery cuz I'm I'm picturing like all
of the the nobles are here, the lords
and the ladies and the courts. They're
all here sort of whispering behind their
hands, watching the the trial of the
year unfold kind of thing. Once the
charges are read, Lord Manfred looks
down at Simon and his friends in the
court and he says, "As you are aware, in
the city of Kitan, those who are accused
of crimes are considered guilty until
such time as they are able to convince
the council of lords of their innocence.
How do you intend to present your
defense in the face of these most
egregious charges? Simon looks up at the
council. Lords and ladies of the court,
Lord Manfred, I come before you today to
proclaim my innocence in all of these
matters. I was not responsible for the
death of these beggars, but I know who
was, and I intend to prove it. But in
order to do that, according to the laws
of this city, which I know well, yeah,
you know, I'm going to make it 50/50
because he was from Argent, which is
very close to the city, but he's he was
never really part urban guy. He was a
rural guy. So, I'm going to make it
50/50. Does Simon know, you know, enough
about the laws of the city to be able to
say what he's about to say? 64 and 35 is
yes. According to the laws of your city,
I, being the accused, have the right to
call witnesses.
I ask that you give me the time and
wherewithal to call those witnesses. I
think the lords confer among themselves
and this is the correct application of
the law. So they, you know, talk amongst
themselves and and uh Manford looks down
again. You will be allowed to call your
witnesses. Who will you start with?
Assignment turns to Edbert.
>> If you have something to say in my
favor, Edbert, now would be the time.
Royce. Edbert steps up.
Lords and ladies of the court, my name
is Edbert. I am a loyal soldier of the
realm and have fought in many of its
battles over the years. I have a
question. He is a soldier of the realm
and he's fought many of their battles.
Is it possible that someone on that
council recognizes him as the
bloodthirsty butcher of Barker Point or
whatever whatever it was that he was is
uh you known for being so bloodthirsty.
Ah, these are the lords of Kitan. He's
just a soldier. I'm going to say it's
very unlikely, which gives us a 50%
chance, but someone does recognize him.
39. One of the other lords looks down.
You there, Edbert? I know you. You are
the butcher of Barker Point. Well, why
not? Your reputation is one of a
bloodthirsty murderer. Why should we
accept your testimony here? I am here
now not to defend me and my history, but
this man who stands accused before you
of crimes he did not commit. Well, the
lords mumble among themselves.
And this means because now they are made
aware of Edbert's bloodthirsty nature,
any persuasion roles he make is going to
be at minus4.
[Music]
The man that stands accused of these
murders before you today, Simon of
Argistan, I have traveled with for many
months now. And in every case, he has
shown himself to be an honorable man. He
put himself in danger in order to save
my hide more times than I care to
remember. Frankly, this man is incapable
of committing the crimes that you accuse
him of. He rolls a d6 and a wild die. -
4. He has to explode.
Okay. Okay. Okay. 6 and 3 is 9 - 4 is 5.
That is a success. I'm going to move one
success forward. He does. His point gets
across and some of the lords sort of nod
and stuff. Manford is obviously unmoved
by this, but we do have a success. The
witness's testimony has been entered
into the record. Who is your next
witness? I choose to call my other
companion. I believe he is one you know
well, Lord Manfred. An Calapunki,
the bounty hunter. An Calapunki, you
were sent out to apprehend this man. But
now you stand by his side and defend
him. That is correct, Lord Manfred. And
I tell you that I have good reason for
having renounced the contract that you
put out on Simon of Argan. Here's a
question. We recall that Arm has a
phobia of long-haired women. Is any of
the counselors a woman with long hair?
Let's find out. I have no idea. 50/50.
It's a 75% chance. Is there? No, there
is. Oh. Yes. Yes. The answer is yes.
Unfortunately. So, as Orin's saying
this, he looks and his eyes go wide
because he sees one of the lords of of
the city who is a female, a lady of the
city, if you will. She's sitting there
looking at him, listening intently as
she has uh been to the the rest of the
witnesses. But she has this long flowing
hair. And as he looks at her, he starts
to stumble a bit and sweat because what
he sees is Cherylyn's face looking at
him and he's he's he's trying to compose
himself and look away, which means he'll
be at a minus. Oh boy. He's a minus 6.
Oh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy. Oh boy. Luckily,
his persuasion's at D8 with a wild card,
but
he's struggling to regain his composure.
He can't take his eyes off of the
long-haired woman. I can tell you, Lord
St. Lady of the court, many times, Santa
wrote, "I have encountered those who he
has helped without any regard for his
own safety." At the town of Untora, when
it was in its most dire moment of peril,
Simon here swept in to save my life, an
avowed enemy. And I tell you this now,
he has never broken his fate with me.
Minus six. He has to explode. No. Have
to spend one of our two remaining
bennies.
Have to explode.
Oh, we now go back down to zero. Do you
have any other witnesses besides the
ones who stand beside you in chains?
I do. I ask now for a runner to be sent
to the temple of Aloia and to bring back
brother Waverly. There's a, you know,
rustle amongst the crowd as well. And um
they've already given him the
wherewithal to do this. That's already
successful. So, I think there's a short
recess, but very soon, uh, they're
reconvened and Brother Waverly is
brought in. He's looking very out of
place. He's looking a little, you know,
he's he's trying to slick back his hair
with a salivoridden hand, you know, and
he's, you know, looking very very out of
sorts in front of all these nobles and
ladies and lords and such. Brother Wally
Afloia, the accused Simon of Augustan
tells us that you will speak on his
behalf. Is this true? Is this true? I
hope so. I don't I don't think I'm going
to roll for this because he's Simon
already did. I mean, he accused him. He
he investigated him at the temple, but
then he heard the truth thanks to
Stratton. He believed him and he gave it
gave him the sword back. And Waverly, I
think at this point, Waverly has sort of
been convinced that clearly Simon's not
the the murderer.
Yes, Lord Manfred.
Simon came to me in the soup kitchens
trying to investigate the murders. He
came in the company of a dear friend of
mine, Stratton, who I understand is
recently passed away. But Stratton was a
man of honor. And as far as I'm
concerned, if he spoke for Simon,
then so will I. I believe this is a good
man who was honest in his attempt to
find the true murderer. Waverly is an
extra. He has a D6. Persuade.
[Music]
Okay. Okay. Explode. This is very good.
This is very good. Nine is success with
a raise.
Two. Waverly turns, walks past Simon,
sort of nods to him. Simon nods back.
The next witness that Simon chooses to
call is Alleta, the daughter of the
slain beggar, the final beggar who was
killed at Thornton's hands. Alleta is
summoned to the court. She testifies to
the gruesome death of her father and the
gruesome death of all the beggars. If we
recall, these beggars were killed in a
multitude of ways, but they were all
gruesome, horrible, bones broken, you
know, limbs ripped out of joint, like
bad, bad, bad. We saw what Thornton was.
So, he just he mutilated those bodies.
She testifies to this. And I think the
crucial ele element of her testimony is
that she says to the court, I look at
the accused and I know that there is no
way that this man could possibly have
done to my father what was done. I mean
look at him. That's true. He's not a
very big guy. His strength is only d6.
The you know people kind of talk they
talk amongst themselves.
Here's a question about this though. Is
Huxley
there? Huxley, if you recall, was Lord
Manfred's manservant who was running the
soup kitchens. Huxley was a polymath. He
was someone who knew a whole lot about a
lot of different stuff. Is Huxley there?
I think it's going to be likely that he
is 34. He is in fact there. Logical
polymath. Simon, does he choose to
concur with this? Has he seen the
bodies? I think he I think he would have
the bodies. The murders took place
around the soup kitchens. Logical
polymath. I think he has a background in
well, he's got a background in
everything. He's a polymath, but I think
that um I think he would have seen the
bodies and I think he might be able to
concur with uh Alleta. Let's see if that
is the case. I'm going to call that um
50/50
60 on 75. Yes, my lords and ladies, I am
Huxley, servant of Lord Manford, and I
can tell you that in my younger days, I
studied quite faithfully the anatomy of
the human body, and I concur with the
observations of this young lady that
this Simon of Argan would be physically
incapable of doing to those beggars what
was done to them.
her testimony, as far as I'm concerned,
will be entered into the record as
accurate and well presented.
Okay, she's going to roll. And because
of that, because Huxley's there, I am
going to give her a plus two.
Okay. Okay. 6 + 6 is 12.
14 + 2 is 16. Total of four successes,
we go to six. The court is moved by the
testimony of this young prostitute who
lost her father to this awful monster
who is yet to be described by the way.
We're coming to that. And because Huxley
himself, a very wellestablished and a
well thought of member of uh Manford's
court, comes forward and concurs with
her. This really starts to move the
court. Well, perhaps perhaps the
preponderance of evidence here actually
shows that uh Simon of Argistan does not
have the strength to be able to have
done what was done. Okay. Well, that is
the last of the witnesses that Simon can
call. I hope I haven't forgotten
anybody. I'm sure if I have, you'll tell
me in the comments, but as far as I can
tell, I think that's it. As it stands,
he is at six successes right now, which
is very good. But we are not over yet
because now it is the time when the
court calls its own character witnesses.
And the first witness they call is a
crown witness by the name of Arnac, the
guard who tried to arrest Simon after
finding him in the alleyway with the
dead bodies and the friend and colleague
of the other guard Liam who was killed
by Simon in his attempt to escape. He
comes forward. Anak tell us in great
detail the events of the night on which
Liam was killed and he does and he
basically tells a story that we already
know which is that they found Simon in
an alleyway hunkered over these bodies
probably a little blood in his hands cuz
he was examining them. They immediately
tried to apprehend him. Simon explained
his case they didn't buy it. A scuffle
broke out and I think that Arnack
basically describes it that Simon
attacked them. He paints a picture of
Simon as being someone desperate to get
away and
uh resisting arrest and of course having
killed a member of the city watch. He is
going to roll up persuade and every
success and raise that he gets counts
against Simon's acquitt. Now you've
heard it lords and ladies. This Simon
was responsible for striking down Liam
in cold blood, resisting arrest, and as
far as I'm concerned was probably the
one who was responsible for killing the
rest of the baggage, too. D6. He's an
extra.
Okay. One, he does not. The people are
not moved by this. Okay, that's good.
But it's not over because after some
deliberation, the crown calls another
witness. And that witness is Isabelle
the bounty hunter. She strides in boldly
looking up at, you know, the the lords
and ladies of the court with a very grim
vis. She stares at Simon as she walks
past him, daggers in her eyes, and she
begins to tell the tale of how Simon of
Argistan callously and coldbloodedly
shot down her legally appointed bounty
hunters, Fain Rosatada and Allandar the
Archer.
How Simon ruthlessly, mercilessly killed
them with one bolt to the neck, to the
head, through the eye. cuz he did. He
really he murdered those guys pretty
good. And then she follows up with the
fact that after they were captured, that
Simon tied them up and left them to die
by the river without any honor
whatsoever. Like like dogs, like
animals. She says, "We know this is not
the case, and if Stratton was alive,
he'd be able to counter this, but
Stratton is dead." And so Isabelle,
respected bounty huntress of Lord
Manford, now rolls her persuade and she
is a wild card.
She does, but it is not a raise. So she
moves the court and we go back down to
five. As the court is deliberating,
Simon is preparing to make his own case
because of course he is allowed to speak
and he has evidence that he has yet to
present. He has yet to tell the truth of
what really happened. But I do have a
question before we go on. Is there a
possibility
that a representative of the temple of
Morgus from Hundtorra that can speak on
Simon's behalf for you know saving the
town of Hundora? I'm going to say it's
very unlikely.
54 on 50. No, there is not. Simon of
Agugustan, this court has heard your
witnesses. We now instruct you to mount
your own defense and present whatever
evidence you have.
>> Simon steps up. He pulls his bag out.
His bag he was allowed to keep by the
guards. Remember he made the persuade
test when he was first arrested. Lord
Manfred, lords and ladies of the city of
Kiton. I, Simon of August,
have presented witnesses to you in an
attempt to show that I am not
responsible. Nor am I at all the kind of
man that could do such a thing. But I
come now to tell you the truth. A man,
if you can call him that, named
Thornton, a fellow beggar of the Hooks
district, was solely responsible. And he
wanted nothing more than to serve in the
watch. But Lord Manfred, when he came to
speak to your son, Haven, your son
rejected him on the basis that he was
nothing more than a dirty beggar. In
revenge, Thornton sought the help of
dark powers. And I think at this moment
there's definitely a rustle among the
courts and the members of the court. In
fact, Lord, you know, Manford has to hit
the gavvel. Order be order in this
court. I know these are ill words to
speak, but they are the truth and I can
prove it. We tracked down Thornton to
his lair, and there we encountered him
and his demonic
nature.
But what we found in his lair is enough
to prove everything that I am saying
here. And he pulls out the helmet.
My lord Manford, I presume you recognize
this man. Of course he does. He looks
in. That is the helmet of my son Haven.
It is my lord. We found this in the lair
taken as a grizzly trophy. There were
trophies of all Thornton's victims there
and this was among them. I think one of
the counselors shouts out, "That doesn't
prove anything. You could have killed
Haven yourself and brought the helmet
here to try and convince us otherwise."
Bit of a murmur. Yes, my lord, that is a
possibility. But I believe you will
find, and he reaches into his bag and
pulls out the book, that this
will corroborate my story. For here, in
this demonic book with pages of human
flesh and words written in human blood,
are all the details that prove
everything that I am saying. And if you
doubt me, I would ask Lord Huxley,
who fancies himself a bit of a logical
polymath, to have a look. Lord Huxley,
have you ever studied the wilds of the
Infernal? Has he? There's a pretty good
chance he is a polymath. 50/50.
75 on 75. As Huxley stands up, goes down
to Simon, takes the book again. There's
murmurss everywhere. He flips the book
open, flips through it, his eyes sort of
squinting, his face, recoiling a little
bit in horror. He looks up at Lord
Manford. This man appears to be speaking
the truth. Inside this book is a dread
ritual that shows how this Thornton,
whose name appears in multiple pages,
procured the help of the infur. There's
again huge huge huge right. And so you
see Lord Manfred, your own man Hugsley
corroborates what I am telling you. I
did not do this. Does he persuade them?
Now here's the thing. Because Huxley has
stepped forward and corroborated this
evidence. Simon will get a bonus of plus
two for presenting this evidence and
only because Huxley was just able to
corroborate that. 75 75. This is for all
the marbles.
Five plus two is seven, which would be a
normal success. I am going to spend a
benny to reroll cuz he needs more. He
needs more than a normal success. Here
we go. Plus two.
It's still seven. I'm going to spend a
second Benny. You can keep spending
bennies and rerolling as long as you
like.
Second Benny. Here we go. Plus two.
Okay, that paid off. I hope 6 plus.
Thank you, buddy. 12
13 14 15 16 17
four successes puts us up to nine on the
marker. My lord, I rest my case. There
was a hubbub commotion in court.
Finally, Lord Manfred, after conferring
with the rest of the nobles, hushes
them. He bangs the gavl. Everyone
quiets. Simon of Agugustan, for a year I
have pursued you. For a year, I believed
that you were responsible for the death
of my son. I have seen your evidence and
the testimonials of your friends and
allies. In the matter of the dead
beggars and my murdered son, I find you
not guilty. And of the death of Liam of
the City Watch, I absolve you of blame
as you were only defending yourself. And
since you have rolled nine bloody
successes,
you had the courage to come back to the
city knowing that I would still be
hunting for you. And yet you came anyway
in order to try and find the real
killer. A killer who was in our midst
for over a year under our noses.
If it was not for you and your
investigations,
he would still be among us now, planning
to kill again with his diabolical
powers. I exonerate you, Simon of Argan,
and I name you hero of the city of
Kitan.
You are free to go.
Simon is like in shock as in shock as I
am, frankly. And what of my friends
Edward and Anne? They are free to go as
well. Go now with honor and the thanks
of a grateful council. And they do. And
as they leave, those who were in support
of Simon's innocence erupt into applause
and cheers
as Simon holding his head high exits the
courtroom.
Found not guilty.
a free man. Several days later, Simon
arrives back at the town of Argistan and
the small cottage where he grew up.
Simon and his friends go inside and
proceed to sit down for a muchneeded
rest. Arin's leg, still wounded, will
always be wounded. Edbert falls into a
immediate and deep slumber. And as he
lies there sleeping very, very
peacefully, Simon looks at him and he
knows that this sleep of Edwards is
temporary. that one day Cherylyn will
return demanding the justice she was
denied. But that day is not this day. It
doesn't take long for Arin to gather his
things and prepare for a long journey.
Friend,
where are you going? We only just
returned to Agugust. I sore to help you
put your father to rest. And in doing
so, I realized what manner of man you
are. A man of honor.
And it was my honor to speak at your
trial and to try to help you clear your
name. My vow to you has been fulfilled.
Simon, I must return home to the north,
for I have a vow that has been long
unfulfilled,
and it is time for me to go back and
deal with it once and for all. Where in
the north? My home is a place that you
here in the south call the Iron Lands.
The Iron Lands. They've been cut off
from the world for centuries. There are
paths through the barrier for those who
know delay.
And
I must go back. My time here in the
south is over. Perhaps Edward and I
could go with you, help you in this vow.
I am afraid not, my friend. The vow I
swore is one I must accomplish alone.
Perhaps one day when my vow is
fulfilled, I will find a way to return
and we will meet again and raise a glass
together.
Until that day then, my friend. Until
that day. And Arin grabs his things
and walks off towards the sea. Simon
watches him go for a long time until he
finally
crosses over a hill and disappears from
sight. Takes a deep breath of the free
forest air around. Steps inside, takes
stonebolt,
goes over to the hearth and hangs it up.
Perhaps one day, he says, looking over
at the peacefully sleeping Edbert.
Perhaps one day I will need you again,
old friend.
and he goes over to the hearth, sits
down in front of the fire, and stares
into it for long moments.
[Music]
And that brings us to the end of the
story of Simon of Augustan and the end
of Me, Myself, and I or at least the
first season. Because when we meet
again, and it will be in a few weeks,
I'll need a break. Pretty burnt out. We
will follow the adventures of Arn
Calapunki as he returns through the
great barrier north to the Iron Lands
there to fulfill the mysterious vow that
he left behind him all those years ago.
What will that vow look like? What will
his adventures look like? I don't know.
But I can tell you this. They will look
very different than Simon's adventures
because they will be done using the Iron
Sworn solo RPG rule set. a very
different feel than what we've been
doing for the past 22 episodes. I hope
you will tune in and join us for that
when it finally drops. In the meantime,
as always, hit like and subscribe,
although there won't be a new episode
for a while, but uh thank you all so
much for joining me on this crazy
adventure. I've so valued your
subscriptions, your comments, your
support. It's been my pleasure to to
share the story of Simon and his friends
with you. And um we will pick it up in
the future in the iron lands with Aron
Kalapuki. But for now, the story of
Simon of Argistan is done. Thank you so
much for joining me and we will see you
next time whenever that is on me, myself
and I.
[Music]
