How's how's the con
treating y'all? I can say y'all.
Yes. Yes.
Um, how many of you are backers of the
game? How many of you not backers of the
game? Okay, I need to talk to you. I
need to focus on you guys. Um,
so if you're not backers of the game,
why are you here? No, seriously. What
What brought you here? If you're not
backers of the game,
>> this guy. You okay? You brought each
other. Greg. Yes. What's that?
>> Oh, cool. Okay. All right. And you?
>> Oh, okay. All right. Okay. All right.
Uh, okay. So, for those of you who are
not backers of the game, well, just to
all of you in general, the program says,
"Join Trevor as he runs you through an
adventure." Run the room through an
adventure. And I thought there's a
better way to watch me do my shtick, and
that's on YouTube. I think a better use
of this time here is to show you not
that but to show you what the game looks
like and specifically to walk through
where the game lives right now in terms
of its mechanics because everybody has
been saying how does this thing work?
What's the deal? I've been teasing so
much information. Here's the thing. The
game is done. It's done but the layout
is not and the pictures are not. The art
is not. So that's what we're that's
what's taking all the time right now.
But it's been sitting on my computer
waiting waiting saying bring me out to
the people. But I can't yet. I can't
because it's not done. So you guys get
to see the guts of the game with samples
of what it's actually going to look
like. So we have about 18 pages that
I've brought with me that I'm
comfortable showing. Still not still
work in progress, but yeah, you will see
more than anybody's ever seen. Uh, and
then we'll go through the guts of the
game. So, just to be clear, I will show
you these samples of the layout. Uh, and
then we'll go through the game and
you're going to see the Google doc.
You're going to see the raw information.
Okay? That is not the book you bought.
Okay? I just want to stress that's just
the guts of it. Okay? Um, but there's a
lot of really cool things about it. In
fact, I was at a dinner with the YouTube
folks last night, a bunch of them like
Kelsey and Baron Derop and all these
folks, and I was explaining to them some
of the social mechanics especially
because one of them, Luke Luke of No,
not Luke Crane. He's uh I forget his
last name. He's fairly wellknown.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. He
was he was saying uh yeah, you know, all
these people that want to make uh rules
for social mechanics and I just think
no, no, it doesn't work. kind of went
actually Luke in my game. Yeah. Yeah.
So, but when I explained it to him, I
saw him going, "Huh, I never never
thought of doing that before." So,
that's cool. That's the goal, right?
It's a good sign.
As I've said before, to those of you who
know, I didn't set out to create
something new and oh my god, no one's
ever done this before. What I set out to
do was pull from all of my favorite
games that I've played or run over the
past 40ome years and put them together
under one roof so that they all work
together. And that has miraculously come
to pass. Um, so it's a combination of
old school games from the 80s and sort
of new games. So there's a lot of
simulationist elements from the old
days, but they're also kind of I don't
want to say narrativist elements, but
leaning to that. So it's it's a
hodgepodge, but it all actually works.
Everyone who's played the game to date,
and this is a small sample size, more
than me, but everyone who's played the
game to date has also said the same
thing. Wow, this is great. This is
exactly what you set out to do. This is
exactly what you promised on the
Kickstarter. And I went, "Okay, good." I
had one guy who I respect very much say
to me, he was running us through a
combat
using the full system, and he was so
excited. He was so into it. And I'm
like, "Huh?" and I'm watching and I'm
taking notes and I'm, you know, trying
not to be killed in my own game. And uh
afterwards he said, and this guy has run
as much as me. He's run everything. He
said, "This is my favorite combat system
ever." And I went, "Don't say that.
You'll jinx it." Anyway, so it's it's
good and I hope that you guys all like
it too from what you'll see. Okay. So,
first of all, let us begin with the
example of the layout. So,
Again, work in progress here. A lot of
this art, in fact, I think all of this
art I'm going to show you today is temp.
It's all temp because we're waiting on
our guys to get the stuff to us. It's
just the way it is. We have a bunch of
art, but it's all in later chapters,
just so you know. Okay, so this is the
essential look of the game here. Um,
what you're seeing is a two-page spread,
right? So, it's as though the book is
spread out in front of you. Um, I'm not
going to get too much in the weeds of
this. I just want to um I just want to
give you a basic sense. So this whole
first chapter core mechanics, it gives
you the basic rundown on how you roll
dice in this game. So to um
to give you the quick prey, it is a D100
game. Uh in other words, it's personal
dice and you roll your skill or under it
is a skill-based game. It is not a
class-based game. It is not a
level-based game. It is a skill-based
game much in the tradition of Rune Quest
or Mithris or Hornmaster or games like
this. Okay, there's a few little
differences from games like Ka Cthulhu
or BRP or these these traditional 1d00
games. The biggest difference is it is a
blackjack mechanic, which means you roll
under but high. So, if your skill is 60,
the closer you get to 60, the better. I
pulled that one from Delta Green, which
is a fantastic game. And you you you
know you succeeded if you rolled your
skill or under. But very often you need
to calculate your level of success or
your success level. And how you do that
is the simplest thing ever. You look at
the 10's die of your role. That's your
success level. So if your skill is 60
and you rolled a 42, you succeeded with
four SL. Done. A lot of previous edition
or iterations of this rule like the old
FFG 40k games, they are perfectly fine.
I love those games. But they had a
little subtraction element in there,
right? Where your skill 60, but you want
to roll low. So if you rolled 24, you
subtract two from six and now you
succeeded with four. It works, but to
me, I go no. Subtraction, no. icky,
buoy, yucky. So this way is uh the
blackjick system much much simpler.
Okay, that's the basic. There's standard
and opposed roll. standard just means
did you roll your skill or less? Great.
Oppose roll is everything else. I'm
there's some force acting against me.
Either that force is going to roll its
own skill and we compare success levels
or it has its own target success level
like a poison. A poison doesn't have a
poison skill. It just has like a TSL, a
target success level of three. So you
got to get 3SL in order to beat that
poison. Simple, simple, simple stuff.
Okay. But there's a lot of variance
within that. there's a lot of things we
can do within it. What isn't here right
now uh in this particular iteration of
our layout but is coming is the concept
of expertise. So, oh yes, thank you.
That's going to happen quite often,
isn't it? Uh with the D100 system
and you have a skill of 80, well, you
have an 80% chance of succeeding. That's
great. But you have no guarantee over
what your success levels are going to
be, right? because it could be anywhere
from 1 to 80. So there's something
called expertise. Expertise is a talent
which is kind of like a feat which we'll
talk about in a second that raises the
floor of your skill. So you could have
expertise 2, three or four. What that
means is if you succeed at the role, you
are guaranteed that amount of success
levels. So expertise three means if you
roll at 12, you succeeded with three
success levels, not one. Right? So,
that's how we that's how we uh
demonstrate skilled characters uh
without having to deal with the crazy
swiggingness that can happen with those
dice mechanics. Yeah. Okay. So, yeah,
this is kind of what we're looking at
here. There's an oppos summary. Uh these
are some stuff. Extended roles is
another thing. A lot of the time
there'll be a situation where uh like in
a lot of games, uh we need to do
something over time and we need multiple
roles in order to achieve it. You're
just counting success levels. This
ultimately is basically the skill
challenge system for D and D4 if anybody
knows that. Um, which is much maligned.
Um, but I think it's incredibly useful
and I think the reason why people dump
all over D and D4 skill uh check test
skill challenge system is because I
think a lot of GMs just turned it into a
bunch of mindless dice rolling. All
right, roll the skill. Now roll it
again. Okay, two hours pass, you
succeed. Well, that's not playing the
game. That's just rolling dice like an
idiot. So I think it's much maligned
because I think it's extraordinarily
useful to have that kind of thing where
you can say we're researching a topic in
this library. Every role we make is
going to take a day and we need to
accumulate 12 success levels in order to
get what we want. The question there is
how long does it take you to do it? But
you only need to roll if it's important.
Like in any game you only roll if
there's a consequence to failure. Right?
Okay.
With me so far, right? This is all
fairly straightforward stuff. This is
not uh brain surgery. Nothing in this
game is brain surgery. Working together.
The timer die. I'll briefly
>> Sorry.
>> That's a wise skill which will it's a
specialty skill. We'll come to that. The
timer die is just another way of dealing
with um tasks over time. It's actually
something I came up with in the middle
of filming an episode of Me, Myself, and
Die season 4. And I realized, oh, I can
introduce this random event as a timer
instead of just a standard thing. Like
instead of saying, I've got three rounds
to accomplish this. No, no, I roll and
every time I roll a skill, I roll that
d10. And if it's the number of rounds or
less that have elapsed, it's over,
right? So, it's another little
Anyway, so that's an option there. Uh,
favor and resolve. This is just this is
the closest thing to a meta currency in
the game as we have, but it's based on
the character. Favor is just a pool of
points you can earn through various
things that give you a little advantage,
plus 10 to a roll. You can spend up to
three favor on any given role. Your
resolve is typically how you give
yourself the favor, right? So, this
isn't story points. This isn't narrative
points. This isn't I'm going to spend a
resolve point to say that there's a
weapon under the table. Nuh-uh uh uh
this is not a story uh editing game.
It's a simulationist, which means that
the the resolve you have, the favor, the
bonus you're getting is based on your
character's current resolve, which gets
affected by fatigue and all this kind of
stuff. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Uh so
that then we get into skills. So, this
is, you know, like a lot of skill-based
games, there's a bunch of skills, but
there's not too many skills. I tried to
reduce the amount of skills as much as
possible. Anybody familiar with the game
Roll Master?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. For those of you right now, I can
see your eyes glazing over thinking
about the number of skills in in
Roaster. Hundreds and hundreds. If you
used all the companions, this is not
that. This is me saying, "What are the
absolute crucial but minimal number of
skills we require in order for
characters to do anything?" Remember,
this is not a class or level based game,
which means that everything you do in
the game is a skill. Also, no stats in
the game. I lie. There are stats, but
they're more they're more of a nod to
the old way of playing than they are
like in a lot of games where, you know,
like a D and D. If I've got an 18th
strength, we know what that means. it
means I can carry this much and I'm
going to get plus three to hit and
damage or whatever it is. This game is a
little different. It's entirely about
the skill, right? Everything's about
that. And of course, the talents, which
will bump that skill in certain ways.
So, the basic skills are combat skills,
self-explanatory. Adventuring skills,
which is all your stuff like track and
perception and stuff like that. Um,
social skills. This is a big this is a
big departure from a lot of games. This
is closer to burning wheel in that there
are many many many ways to skin a cat in
a social encounter. DND 5 has what?
Persuasion and intimidate.
Boo. This has
uh more. Not as many as Burning Wheel
does. Burning wheel has like 25
different versions of persuading people.
Right. That's what's that?
>> And you can make
>> And you can make more. Yeah. Uh, but
that's not what this this is this is a I
think there's nine. So it's things like
persuade, deceive, seduce, wit,
protocol, inspire. A lot of this was
really heavily influenced by the one
ring. The one ring has, I think, four or
five key social skills and it's
magnificent and it works beautifully. So
that's what I try to do with the skills,
just boil them down to their core
constituents. For example, we will see,
well, you can't really see here, but
athletics, athletics covers everything.
A lot of people don't like that. A lot
of people say, "No, no, no. There's a
difference between climbing and
swimming, and I want to model that."
Well, you're on your own, which you can
perfectly do, but for me, cuz this whole
game is about what I like. Athletics is
enough. Are you athletic? You can climb.
Can Okay, you can swim. You're fine. Are
you wearing armor? Well, that's
different, but that's handled in the
armor rules, right? Uh, adventury social
skills. Lore skills are basically
anything you know
and also practical application of
specialized knowledge like healing for
example is actually a lore uh skill and
then magic skills which is used
specifically by the spellw weavers and
the godbound which are the clergy the
the the priests.
Uh okay is so yeah um here's your skill
lists the combat skills dodge melee
light medium weapons. So the the melee
weapons divided into three categories,
but then they they break down more
specifically in terms of their stats
later on. Blah blah blah. We've all seen
this a million times. There's a language
table of all the spoken languages in the
broken empires. I'm very proud of this
little thing here. Uh bind strands of
part of the magic skills. Boom. Then we
talk about skill competency. What does
it mean? What does it mean to have a
skill of 50 versus 60 for example? Right
now this bit succeeding without a role
right there. This is another thing that
I was so inspired by Delta Green. This
was the first game that I saw do it.
That doesn't mean it was the first game
that did it. It's just the first time I
saw it. The idea of succeeding without a
skill. So, let's say you're
investigating a crime scene. Okay. And a
lot of games would say, "All right, when
the players come to the crime scene,
they all roll perception, and whoever
succeeds at a perception discovers this
clue, let's say."
Well, succeeding without a role means
that instead of doing that, you say when
the players walk in the room, anyone
with a perception of 40 or more notices
this. Anyone with a perception of 60 or
more notices this. So, it's just
automatic. Now, that doesn't mean you
can't roll. Let's say you've got a
perception of 30. Of course, you can
roll. You can still roll to try and
succeed. But, of course, there's always
consequences for failure. That's key,
right? I love this little rule. So cool.
Right out of Delta Green. Um I think
like I said that's first place I saw it.
Very cool. Okay. Okay. Uh finding
information supporting skills.
Supporting skills is B is a concept that
comes from Mithris. It's the idea that
you as your character can benefit from
another skill if it can apply in that
situation. So, if you're, I don't know,
healing your horse, let's say your horse
has taken an arrow and you want to do a
heel skill roll, but you want to support
that heel skill roll with your knowledge
of animals, which is nature- wise. So,
what you do is you take the 10's die
value of your supporting skill. So,
let's say it's 40. The 10's die is four.
You double it and you add that to your
primary skill. So if your heal skill is
50 and your animal wise is 40, you
double the four to eight. Now your new
skill is 58, right? So it's not a
gargantuan bonus, but every little bit
helps. Yeah. So that's and that comes
right out of mythus. It's a really
really cool way to handle it. Uh you can
get help from other people that way or
you can help yourself. You can draw upon
your own skills to help yourself in that
case.
>> Okay.
>> Is there a limit to how many supporting
skills?
>> One. You can only use one. Talents are
basically feats. We all know what this
is. Um I don't go overboard with the
talents in this, but each of these
talents is very specific and they're
pretty damn cool. Uh uh and they're
always expanding. This is as much as
will be in the core book. But of course,
I've got a whole list of other things
that eventually I want to release, but
that will come. So, let's look at this.
Uh you've got your classics like uh uh
eagle-eye. Add one zone when determining
effective range when using one specified
range weapon. So, if you use a long bow
and you've got this, you can fire one
zone further. for example, stuff like
that. Uh, so you've got combat talents,
we've got combat maneuver talents, we'll
talk about that in a little bit. Um,
adventuring talent. These are all
connected to the skills essentially,
right? Social talents, lore talents.
This is my favorite one. Blather. Spew a
string of gobbledygook to confuse one
target in combat or otherwise. The
target must be able to hear and
understand you. As an action, make a wit
roll opposed to the target's insight,
and if you win, they suffer minus 20 to
the next roll, etc. I love that stuff.
that was inspired by Warhammer Fantasy
Roleplay version one actually. Lower
talents and then magic talents and all
this good stuff. Miscellaneous is all
the stuff that doesn't fit anywhere
else. Like you want to have more quote
unquote hit points, that's where this
would go. You want to be able to carry
more stuff, that's where this would go.
yada yada yada. And then non-human
talents. So this is not a Menagerie
game. This is not uh the Zoo of the
Broken Empires where you can play all
sorts of dragon men and cat people and
all of that stuff. No, there are five
principal races in the game.
Overwhelmingly human in the game.
Overwhelmingly human. If you want to
roll randomly for your character's race,
which you can do, I think there's an 80%
chance you're going to be human. Again,
you could ignore that. You can just say,
"I want to be this." And then
congratulations, you're that. But
overwhelmingly, human is the default.
Other than that, there's dwarves, which
are a little, you know, they're very
similar to the dwarves, as we know, but
there's a few things that separate them.
There's uh half orcs. Half orcs are very
cool. Half orcs are not born of the
union between men and orc. They are only
male, and they are hatched in the
mountains, much as Peter Jackson's
Urakai were hatched. So, there's no
female half orcs. Half orcs don't mean
that they're half of anything. What it
means that at some point in these
particular orcs lives, something snaps
in their brain where they become
civilized
and now they no longer understand the
barbarous savages that their orc
brethren are. Because make no mistake,
in the Broken Empires, orcs are monsters
to be killed, not things to be played as
characters. So, a half orc is someone
who went, "Wait a minute, you guys are
too violent." Basically, there was some
little switch that went off. Um, so
there's that. There's ogres which are
interesting in their own right. There's
bulgar. So this is the closest thing to
elves or half- elves that we get in the
setting. There are elves in the settings
history called the dwan and seed. They
no longer live in the world as far as we
know. But the bulgar are their cousins
who were abandoned by the elves after
the elves left. And the bulge fear were
left holding the bag going, "What are
you doing? You're leaving us with these
humans and orcs and dwarves. Thanks for
nothing." So that's the bulge fear.
They're they're attuned to magic more
than other people are. and they have
slightly pointed ears and they're tall
and thin and yada yada yada. Finally,
there is the replaced. And the replaced
are humans who were abducted by the dark
fay and served as slaves in the realm of
the dark fay and who escaped and who
have found that their old lives have
been taken over by a changeling in their
place. That's how you start as a dark
fay. You come through the thorns and you
got your life back and now what? And
you're constantly chased. Constantly
chased by the queen. the fay queen.
However, you also retain a bit of the
power of the dark fay as well. So, you
can do things like glamour and you can
there's all kinds of cool stuff. Anyway,
so that's it. That's the races. There's
no dragon born. There's no there's no
halflings. I know some of you may be
going a oh well I love halflings in
Middle Earth and this is not Middle
Earth. So, okay, watch half the half the
audience leaves.
All right. So that is that that's all we
have for layout. I'm going to switch to
the terrible terrible Google doc now
just to give you a sense. Okay. So
again, I'm going to try and go through
this uh as quickly and comprehensively
as possible. Character creation is
modeled kind of like the old Rune Quest
rules. There's 11 steps. The first thing
is you choose your race. That's and you
you can call it lineage or ancestry or
whatever is politically correct. I don't
care. Me it's a race. That's what it's
called.
uh you choose that because that sets a
couple of base things, right? Assign
your starting skills. Everybody has
starting skills. You choose your stats.
So, I want to talk briefly about that.
I'll bump down to stats here. So, the
six stats are in fact the ones, the big
six, the ones we all know and love.
Strikes, dexterity, constitution,
intelligence, wisdom, and charisma.
However,
what they do is you pick two of these
stats that your character is
particularly uh that that excels in.
Okay? And what that does is it gives you
a little bonus to a whole host of
skills. It gives you access to one of
three talents that are specific to those
stats and it gives you a level of
expertise in one of those skills as
well. So, it's a it's kind of a big
deal. I know that doesn't sound like
much, but having expertise too is is a
much bigger deal than it actually uh
seems like. So that's how stats come
into it. You also get descriptors, stat
descriptors. You can say, "I'm Bronny
and smart if you want, but those
actually have mechanical advantages. You
can you can draw upon those mechanically
later with something called personality
traits, which we'll get to with me so
far? Yeah, great. Attributes are things
like your max resolve, your toughness,
initiative score, death threshold,
lethality level. I don't want to get too
much in the weeds, but we'll we'll talk
more about this when we talk about
combat. The cultural background. Again,
this is very very Rune Quest. There's
basically four cultural backgrounds.
There's uh civilized, urban, civilized
rural, um what are the other ones? Uh
barbarian, and wanderer, right? Um and
they they just give you some extra.
Basically, character creation is a
series of going through a number of
steps in which you have a bunch of
points to spend on skills and talents
and things like that. So, you build your
character step by step. There is no
total random way to make a character.
All of these things can be randomized
individually to an extent, but it's not
like I'm going to roll 3d6 down the line
and play what I come up with. It's not
really that kind of game. Um, you do
have a lot of agency with picking what
your character's going to be. Uh,
life events. This is my favorite. There
is a life path system in the game.
Basically, every character has three
events that they roll randomly for and
it's your origin, your youth, and your
recent events. Now, they could be
anything and there is a whole bunch. I
have to switch documents here. There is
a whole bunch. Life event origin.
There's all these entries. So, for
example, let's look at this one. Raised
in the wild. This don't do that. Raised
in the wild. You grew up on the edge of
civilization, either in the wilderness
or among nomads. What animal or spirit
do you believe watches over you? What
hidden glade, ruin, or cave did you
discover as a child? How did you prove
yourself to your wild kin or guardians?
Add plus 10 to nature-wise or survival.
So, what you get out of that is you get
a little bonus to a skill, which is
important, but more importantly, you get
a little taste of the character's
history, which is very useful when you
are crafting goals for the character.
This entire game runs on goals. You
don't get XP by going into dungeons and
killing monsters unless your specific
character goals are, I'm going to go
into dungeons and kill monsters. So,
these life events are super useful when
you're coming up with goals because they
will suggest quests in your past, right?
So, there's also a randomization table
you can use to to um change these up.
This is a holy writ. You don't have to
use this exactly. You can use it as
inspiration. Right? Those of you who
watch my show know that I'm big on
randomness and I'm big on creating in
the moment. So much of this character
creation system is based on that. So
much of this whole game is Christ on is
is is is predicated on the GM going I
don't know what's going to happen. Let's
see. Right. And again that's not
everybody's cup of tea but it is my cup
of tea. So that is what you will see
here. So these are very very cool. Oh
Jason Loops of the Perilous Wilds was
the guy that wrote most of these. So I
gave him a bunch to start off and then
he did the rest and he did just
fantastic work. Really great team on
this thing. You also have something
called a previous career. Now, this, as
I said, this is not a class-based
system, but there are things called
previous careers. This is the thing you
did before you are the person you are
today. It just it's like a it's like a
package of skills and talents you can
choose from. This is very much like
Runquest or Mithris, right? Again, it's
just you go through step by step. You
you got this pool of points I'm going to
put into here, put in there, and by the
time you're all done, you've got a
fairly well-rounded character who, I
should point out, is quite competent at
what you want them to be competent at.
but they won't be good at everything.
So, it's not a zero to hero game. You
don't start off as, "Oh, I can't take a
hit or I'll die." Unless you choose to
make that character, but typically
speaking, you're good. If you're a
ranger, you can track. You can lead
through the wilderness. If you're a
fighter, you can swing a sword and take
a hit. If you're a wizard, you can cast
that spell, right? You're you're good.
You you you got your stuff. You got it.
You got it, man. You got this.
All right. So, there's a bunch. They
look a lot like classes. Bard, civilian,
godbound, lore master, merchant, ranger,
rogue, speaker, spellw weaver, and
finally, warrior. Again, you are not
constrained by these.
Once character creation is over, you can
develop your character in any direction
you wish, so long as the concept or the
context of the game supports it. So, if
you're a warrior and you really want to
become a guy who can cast magic, you can
do that. It's called acquiring the fade
talent. The fade. A fade is someone who
has a little bit of little little taste
of magic, but they'll never be truly as
powerful as a natural-born spellw
weaver. You can do that. It's expensive
and you got to find the people in the
world to teach you, and you got to
expend the XP to get that, but you can
do it. Nothing stopping you from that,
right?
Okay.
And then there's rounding out. You get a
bunch of points. Here, round out your
character. Look. Oh, you you didn't put
anything in perception, but you really
want to be perceptive. All right, there
you go. Now, your perception is 50
instead of 20, right? Simple simple
stuff there. Uh, gear. We have gear. We
have armor and weapons. Uh, I will talk
a little bit more about this in the gear
chapters. Personality traits. So, I had
and have actually in the appendex a
very, very detailed personality system
that is highly inspired by the pen
dragon game. This is not that. This is
not that because as cool as that is, it
just didn't quite work the way I wanted
it to in this. But I told everybody
about it and they said, "But that sounds
great." And I said, "All right, I'll put
it in the appendix." So now it's an
option. But by default, you have uh I
think two descriptors. You've got stat
descriptors, which is based on your
strength or intelligence or whatever.
And then there's some common personality
traits. And I can't remember. I think
you take two or something. But basically
how it works is if you want to draw upon
a personality trait or stat descriptor,
they're the same thing in a scene of the
game. If you think that that trait is
going to help you in that moment and the
GM agrees, you can get a plus 20 to the
role. Not huge, but like I said, every
little bit helps. So that's its own
reward. You can only do that so often
because before the the GM says, "All
right, no, enough. Enough, Mr.
Altruistic. No more no more generous
bonuses for you, Mr. Altruism.
>> No, it's perfectly free, but you can
only do it within reason.
>> That is a big deal in this game. You
will see that all throughout these
pages. Common sense within reason. Use
your head. Don't be an idiot. You won't
see that phrase, but that's the spirit.
So now the other side of this is if you
think that there's a moment where your
personality trait can cause you some
sort of problem, you can voluntarily
say, "I want to take a penalty on this
role because of my personality trait."
And if you do that, you get a plus one
XP at the end of the session. That you
can only do once. But again, it's a
little I I got that there's a bunch of
games that do that kind of stuff.
Forbidden Lands is a is a good one for
that. Forbidden Lands has something
called a dark secret. And if you if you
allow your dark secret to cause you
problems in the session uh for whatever
whatever that means whatever that means
to you in the gym then um then you get
an XP. So that's that's kind of where
that comes from. All right.
Blah blah blah. Goals. Goals are so
important that I go on for pages about
them. Uh without goals you cannot
advance. You must have goals. And
there's very specific criteria about
goals. They need to be they need to be
well it's here. They need to be
specific, proactive, and completable.
I'm not going to go on about this. This
is a big thing that I take from Burning
Wheel, a game that I otherwise kind of
hate, but I do love the idea of this
idea of goals. The idea that your
character is always trying to achieve
something. And why? Because I've spent
my entire life in show business. And in
show business, the rule is always if
your character does not want anything,
there is no story. There is no
progression. There is no drama. There is
no interest. I firmly believe that so
much that it is a hardcoded rule in the
game. Your characters must want
something. What is it? There's many ways
to figure that out, including the life
origin events. Those are a big way to
help. Okay, but goals are very, very
specific. you. There's a lot of um
information here about what a goal is,
but also how to craft them, where they
come from, how to resolve them, all this
kind of stuff. Okay.
All right. All right. Blah blah blah.
Uh we have an an optional rule called
status which handles totally optional,
but it handles um overall wealth or uh
uh influence in a particular society.
Um, very cool stuff, but completely
optional. And then we get to XP. So,
I've talked about how you earn XP by
following your goals. And you spend XP
on various things, which is coming up
here.
Yeah, you spend XP on skills and buying
talents. And
that is it. But that's everything. The
whole game is skills, skills, and
talents. So, that's what you spend your
XP on, right? So you might get like an
average game you'd get between I think
three and 5 XP which roughly equates to
you know a couple of skills going up.
Now that is another difference. This
again this is not a level based game. So
instead of going I'm level three and all
of a sudden I've got all these things I
can do. No, it's incremental change.
It's slow incremental change. You might
think to yourself if I've got a skill of
50 and I spend XP and now my skill is
53.
Big deal. What's 3%? I'll tell you what
3% is. When you roll 52 and you have a
skill of 53, it's much better than a
skill of 50. That's the difference. And
that's not pedantic. It's math and it's
the way it works. So, it's a very slow
incremental process. Again, very much
modeled after games like Harm Master,
Rune Quest, Mithris.
Okay.
Binds and strands. These are your magic
skills. They operate a little
differently.
Everybody still with me? Yeah.
Great. Any questions so far?
>> Yes, sir.
>> At the very top of the screen, I see a
chapter on death there. How does that
work?
>> Oh, this is just a little note about
death and new PCs. If your character
dies, which yes, can happen.
Uh, it's just a little thing basically
saying, um, if you've played that
character for a long time and you want
to roll up a new character, you
basically get a few bonus XP based on
the power level of your previous
character, just so you're not starting
off as a complete noob.
>> Yes. When it comes to character
creation, can you choose to take any
particular weaknesses like short-sighted
or whatever? And if so, will you get a
mechanical drawback or is it just a
>> So, I don't have a flaws system built
into it like a virtue flux system or a
advantage disadvantage system as Gersps
calls it. um that was on the table at
one point, but honestly I I didn't feel
it added enough for me to be worth the
return on the time investment, which is
my little it's my phrase roti. If it's
not worth the roti, then uh it's no
good. U so it was just a choice, but um
personality traits can act as that. So
if you have a a negative personality
trait, you can choose whether it affects
you negatively and then you get rewarded
for that, right? Next. Yeah.
>> Uh and because
never Unless something is my way,
unfortunately. How
modable would it be to
add in bundles of bonuses and penalties
to their system?
>> Easy. As soon as you under as soon as
you understand the system and as soon as
you understand how character creation
work, that's just a little leg work on
your part, but it's easy. Um, I have a
chapter about that in the GM section
about changing the game rules.
You are all going to change this game
when you play this game. That's going to
happen. It's what we do as GMs. That's
okay. The only thing I say is, and this
is my personal belief, and I follow this
all the time, I never change a game
until I've played it rules as written
for a few sessions first because the
designers often have something in mind
that on paper doesn't make sense, but as
soon as you put it into play, you go,
"Oh, I get it. That's why this is the
case." Conversely, things look great on
paper. Sometimes they don't work so well
on the table. Burning wheel. Hello, my
friend. Um,
but yes, uh, it would take a little leg
work, but it's easy to do. For example,
in combat, it is a zonebased thing. And
people go, "Ah, no. Where's my grid? I
need my grid." It's not that hard to
build a grid system in. It's pretty
simple. But I ain't going to do it.
That's your game, my friend.
Okay. What's the rule that you think
will be the most difficult and you'll
have to sell to people and they're
reading on paper doesn't make sense but
it did work in me mechanically on a
table.
>> Oh um
sell to people as in that they don't
understand when they read it. Is that
what you mean?
>> You read a rule and you're like is this
going to work? That sounds kind of
weird.
>> Oh yeah. Uh the entire social system.
>> Okay.
>> Yep. The entire social system. There's
going to be a lot of people that go
rules for social encounters, but don't
you just role play? And the answer is
yes, you do role play. That's how the
social mechanics work as we will see.
But yes, absolutely. The social system,
as was evidenced last night at my dinner
with Luke. Luke, social mechanics, not
stupid.
Not so much. Not so much. All right.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Yes.
When if someone gains five XP in a
session, someone else gains three and
the next session is five, three, and
five and three. Is there a system for
pulling that back together so that
people are playing
>> so that people are equal? I despise the
word equal. I despise equity in all of
its forms.
Cut that and put that on YouTube. No.
Uh, and no, there is no rule for that
because
sometimes people are going to advance at
different levels. That and that's a
really old school way of doing things.
In the old days, in the old days of in
the old days of advanced Dungeons and
Dragons, every class had a completely
different uh XP progression that still
exists in certain games like Axe.
Alexander Macro says axe. So, if you're
a fighter, you're going to level up
maybe faster than like a wizard would or
something. And that's just the way it
was. So, in those days, you had
characters. You've got a sixth level
wizard with a second level thief and a
fourth. That's just the way it was. Um,
and I'm not consciously trying to
emulate that. I just I I I kind of
believe that it it's just the way it
works. I I I I hate worlds leveling up
with characters and I hate any sense of
artificial preserving a balance. I
despise the concept of game balance. Um,
I understand why people do it and I
understand all of the Pathfinder 2
players out there. I really do. But
they, in my opinion, Pathfinder 2
sacrifices so much on the holy altar of
game balance. And to me, it's boring
because every encounter feels the same.
>> Yeah, they bounce the fun of it. But
that's just me. That's no slight on
Pathfinder 2. I play it. I run it. I
have many friends who play it.
>> There's probably not that huge of a
difference between a character that has
20 more.
>> Exactly. So
>> that's a crucial distinction. So because
characters do level up incrementally.
Exactly. That if your total, you don't
even really count total XP because it
doesn't matter because you take your XP
and you immediately use it and spend it
to improve your character. So your
snapshot of the character, it is a
little more difficult to see until you
understand the system, right? But
basically, you would look at the overall
skills of the character and go, "Oh,
that guy's got a mely light of 97. He's
awesome, whereas the other guy's got 52.
Okay, well that gives you a pretty good
idea of where they're at, but it's no
guarantee, right? Because it is
swinging. And maybe that guy, the 52 guy
has expertise for like it could be lots
of stuff, but yeah,
>> some kind of a diminishing return."
Yeah, thank you for that. So, this is
important, too, and this does actually
speak to your question. When you spend
XP on getting your skills up, here's how
it works. Let's say you've got a skill
of 65 and you say, "I want to spend a
single point of XP to improve my skill."
Okay, you do. How does that work? You
spend the XP, you take your handydandy
percent, and you roll. And if you roll
over your current skill, in other words,
66 to 100, it goes up by 1d4 plus one.
If you roll your skill or less, it goes
up by one. Which means the better you
are at something, the harder it is to
improve. So you could get skills over a
100. That is possible. And there's very
specific rules for how that plays, but
it really fast becomes diminishing
returns. It becomes so expensive to get
those skills up there. So there is a
limiting factor up there as well. So
again, that's why I guess that's why
your concern wasn't a concern to me
because I knew that's the overall
progression, right? Cool.
>> Yeah.
>> So, there's three life event stages.
>> Yeah.
>> Are these at all related? Like, you
know, depending on the first role, then
that will affect your second role. Are
they just completely independent?
>> They're completely random. But, but what
I didn't even talk about the coolest
part of this is once everybody has their
life events, once all the players do,
they sit down and they I pulled this
from Traveler from the manga Traveler.
They sit down and they look at their
life events and they go, "Okay, I think
my origin event connects to your youth
event because there was that thing that
happened that I think when you were
attacking that tower, I think I was I
think I was part of the the military
camp that was
and if you find those connections, you
actually get a little skill bonus as
well." So, it encourages the players to
find those connections because all of
those connections not only create rich
characters who have a previous
relationship, but
they um create goal possibilities,
right? Every time we've done this, I
have a cohesive party that all share
goals right out of the gate. There's no
three strangers meeting at a tavern in
this game. By I mean, you can, but by
default, people start with, "Yeah, we're
all We all know each other. We've all
been through stuff, right? Yes. Okay,
let me let me move on here.
Uh, equipment. Uh, what shall I say? Oh,
what to say about equipment? Uh, not
much other than it does exist. This is
not a gear porn game. This isn't about,
oh, I've got my plus three sword of
wounding and I've got my rod of lordly
might. Oh, those things may exist, but
it's not about that. The accumulation of
stuff is not the focus of this game.
Unless your character has a goal. I want
to accumulate stuff in which case it is.
But I abstract a lot. Okay. So there is
standard rules with haggling. I want to
I want to get that guy's that merchant
sword down 10spe silver pieces whatever
you can do that that's there. But
typically speaking that's not really the
focus of things. Encumbrance is
important but only for two reasons.
All I care about with encumbrance is do
you have enough surface area on your
body to carry the stuff? This is not
Skyrim. Which of my 15 swords should I
find from my somehow that I'm carrying
on my back? Right? So, you only have so
much room to carry stuff. That's the
first thing. And the second thing is
armor. Armor the better it is. And this
is this is so the hea hate me for this,
but this is just a game thing. The
better the armor is, the slower you move
in combat, which is not at all
historically accurate at all, but it
doesn't matter. It's a game thing,
right? Neither are dragons. So there you
go. Um,
so there is a balance there, right? Uh,
so that's the important thing with a
cumbersence. Do you have room to put the
thing on your body? And can you get the
thing in time? And what kind of armor
are you wearing? Does it slow you down?
Does it make it harder for you to dodge
a blow or to rise from prone in a
combat? Yeah. Okay.
That's all I'll say about encumbrance
because it's boring but important. Okay.
I don't think it's boring at all. I
think my encumbrance rules are awesome.
But
uh blah blah blah weapons. We've got all
the different weapons. I said before
that they're they're they're categories,
but as you can see here, each weapon has
its own stat line, right? Like a
shortsord cost 60. It's got one
encumbrance, which means it well it
deals with encumbrance. Um, it does two
damage a weapons uh or a static damage.
Basically, in this game, a weapon has a
static damage that you add your success
levels to your net success levels to uh
find out what the damage is minus any
armor in the hit location. Then, uh each
weapon has these are combat maneuvers
that apply to specific weapons. Choose
location, circumvent shield, disarm or
trip. And here's the costs. So, the
shortsword it costs two SLs. In other
words, you have to generate two net SLs
on a combat role in order to qualify for
either choosing a location. In other
words, the head, the arm, the body, the
whatever, or to circumvent the guy's
shield. Shields in this game are
awesome. Everyone should have that and a
helmet if you want to live.
Um, and then disarm and trip are harder
with a with a small weapon. Five and
six. Basically, the bigger the weapon,
the harder it is to choose a location or
to circumvent a shield, but the easier
it is to disarm someone or to trip them.
There's other combat maneuvers, too,
which we'll get to. My favorite thing in
this whole list is this dagger right
there. This is my favorite thing.
Thrown. You can throw the dagger. Look,
it only does one damage. Okay, but
piercing five on a prone opponent or
someone who's grappled. What does that
mean? It means,
yes, it means you ignore five points of
armor with a dagger if they're prone or
if you're in a grapple. This is that
awesome scene in the king where Henry is
battling what's his name? And of course,
it devolves into a a grapple on the
ground because every fight does. And he
pulls out the knife and that's what I
think that was that movie. Anyway,
whatever. I think it's some movie.
That's what does it and that's what did
it historically too. Not that I'm some
big historical reenactor. That's not the
point. But I just love the idea that
even if you see a tank walking up to you
in full plate, you can still get him if
you knock him on his ass somehow and
then so it's possible, right? Love that
the best. Okay.
Armor is cool and awesome and you need
it or you'll die. Uh,
not a gearbased game, but there's a
bunch of random items. This is the big
one. This is sort of my nod to the new
school. This is supply dice.
People are going to hate this or love
it, but that's okay. If you hate it, you
can ignore it. There's an option how to
do that. I to tell you the honest truth,
>> everyone. Yes, it comes from Forbidden
Lands. I'm not sure how I feel about the
gear die yet. What this is is Okay,
let's talk about the other. So, there's
gear, ammo, medical rations. Yeah,
forbidden lands is where this concept
where I first saw this concept. I like
it. It's funny though because so how it
works, just for you unfamiliar with it,
each of these things represents the
total stuff you have. So your ammo die
goes from D6 to D12. Okay? Every time
you shoot your bow, you roll the ammo
die, and if it comes up one or two, it
decreases the next die step. So 12 goes
to 10, goes to 8, goes to six, goes to
out.
Now, why do I like this? Because I like
rolling dice and I like the uncertainty.
When I shoot my bow, I don't know in the
heat of combat whether I'm going to have
an arrow for the next round or not
because it's chaos. I love that. I love
the idea of chaos. So, that's what this
does. Anytime you're rolling dice, it
introduces chaos. And chaos is good
because chaos is exciting. We like
chaos.
A lot of people say, "No, no, no. I want
to know exactly how many arrows I have
in my quiver. I paid for 20 arrows. I
want to track 20 arrows. Okay, go ahead.
Your game, man. But me, I like this gear
die or this ammo die. Medical, same
thing. Every time you do a heal check at
all, you can use heal to do all kinds of
stuff. You need to use it to do all
kinds of stuff. Bringing people out of
shock or treating their wounds or
preventing infection or sawing off their
infected leg because they're about to
die of sepsis. I love it. Um, is what
you roll a medical dye for. It's your
It's your bandages and your stuff, your
medical stuff. Then rations is your
food. rations you don't actually need in
all cases, weirdly because the travel
system, well, we'll get to the travel
system, but gear, this is the this is a
controversial one. Gear is torches,
lanterns, oil, lantern, oil, rope, and
other useful equipment that your
character could expect to have under
normal circumstances.
Hey GM, I'm a ranger. Do
Hey, GM, I'm a ranger. Do I have a wire
for a snare? Uh, yeah. Okay, then you
have it. Now roll your gear die. If it
rolls a one or two, your gear die goes
down. What does this mean? It means as
you go through your stuff, you lose your
stuff. Your stuff gets broken. Your
stuff gets used. That's all. Are there
edge cases? Well, I I pulled out rope
five times and I rolled one or two every
time and now I'm I used my last rope and
I'm out of I'm out of trip wire. Yeah,
that's an edge case. Use your head.
You're a GM. Don't be an idiot. Figure
it out. Right. Really, if I could put
that on all these pages, just figure it
out. Come on. Come on. Figure it out,
guys. That I would. But I don't know if
I love it because of that very edge
case. I'm still not convinced I love it,
but I'm confident enough to be able to
put into the first edition of the book.
We'll see.
Anyway, so that's that. Okay. Um, you
you're all with me so far, right? I'm
trying I'm trying not to overwhelm you
here, but there's a lot to get through.
Combat. How can I get through this easy?
Okay. Biggest difference. Not biggest
difference. I don't want I don't want to
compare this to any other game. That's
silly. We know what combat is. You're
trying to kill the guy. He's trying to
kill you, right?
A violent conflict is structured in
combat rounds. Like, I'm talking to a
baby. We all know what uh a combat round
is. Uh on a round, you can move and do a
thing.
That's what you do. You can move and do
a thing. It is a zone based system. Why?
Because I think zones are just easier to
handle. I have nothing against hex's or
grids. I love those games, too. But for
me, they become a little wargamy, little
tactical minis game. Again, love war
games. Love tactical minis games. But
for this, I wanted something a little
more something with a little more
breathing room visually. Uh, and I use
zones in a very particular way. As we'll
see, you can move and do a thing.
Initiative. You have an initiative
score, which is your innate speed, which
you can create yourself when you create
your character. It is affected also by
your armor. The more armor you wear, the
slower you're going to be, however, the
more protected you're going to be,
right? We roll every round.
Every round? Yes. However, only the
players roll. All of the adversaries
have a standard initiative. So, the
standard initiative of an enemy is 12.
You roll your 1d10 plus whatever your
initiative bonus is, which is calculated
from who you are as a vast dextrous
person minus the armor. That's the
number. I roll 1d 10 plus four. Okay,
great. You rolled an eight. That's bad
example. You rolled a seven. Okay. 11.
Oh, the bad guy's on 12. You go after.
Oh, no. Well, that's only this round.
But also, you can spend resolve to bump
up your initiative. And players break
ties. So, if you're both on 12, players
go first. That's my little nod to the
players. That's here. Here here player.
There's your there's your treat.
Survive. Survive players. There you go.
You you break ties.
Uh but it is every round. And a lot of
people think every round initiative. Oh
my god, there's so much to track. It's
really not. And especially if you're a
VTT player. It's literally nothing to
track. You just go click and then there
it is. But we do have a VTT coming. Just
so you know, that is on the way. All
right. Initiative blah blah surprise.
Surprise is awesome. If you can surprise
your foe, do it. It's the best.
Uh, zones,
you know, it's ranges, yada yada yada.
Here's the big deal. Zone descriptors as
an option optional rule. The GM could
give zones flavorful descriptive
features called zone descriptors. Fallen
logs, rocky footing, fire everywhere,
densely crowded, etc. These can be used
by each player character or important
NPCs once during the combat to give a
plus 20 zone descriptor bonus to any
skill role if creatively justified
within the context of the situation. Can
only use one at a time. But I do not
like the game of fate. But what I do
like about fate because I always like
something about every game even if I
don't like the overall game. What I
liked about fate was there's aspects on
zones which players can tag. Now, I do
not like the mechanics of that in fate.
So, here there is options to do it
slightly differently, too. But this is
just a nod to that. If you know that
there's a fallen log there and in your
zone, let's say, and you're fighting a
guy, you can tactically use that zone
descriptor to give yourself a bonus. I
attack him and as I do, I push him over
that fallen log. Great. Plus 20. You can
only do it once because the enemy, he's
not going to fall over the same thing
twice. is the idea. Or you could use it
to defend if you want. I leap behind the
fallen log and roll. I get my plus 20.
It just engages the player characters or
the players rather even more with the
tactical simulation that they're seeing
there as opposed to I stand. I rolled a
hit. I rolled a hit. I rolled a hit.
He's dead. Okay. I moved two squares. I
rolled a hit.
No. No. This game is all about combat is
all about tactical maneuvering and using
every possible advantage against your
enemy. Knocking them prone is a big deal
as you'll see. Okay, zone descriptors
are there. Here's a bunch of example
zone descriptors. Zone hazards, too.
These are things like if the zone's on
fire, what's going to do damage or if
it's cramped or if it's rough terrain,
you know, stuff like that. They all have
specific rules. Um, and then here's a
list of the biggest actions. Aim, attack
and melee, attack at range, hold
interrupt, yada yada yada. All the usual
stuff you see in combat systems in every
game in the world. There are some
differences here, but I don't want to
dwell on that. What I want to dwell on
is there are critical successes and
failures. It's not like a lot of games
where I got a crit. I win the role
playing game. No, a crit means you roll
doubles under your skill. That's a
critical success. You roll doubles over,
it's a critical failure. Critical
success gives you plus three success
levels. That's it. Oh, and in combat, it
also gives you a secondary combat
maneuver, which we're about to come to.
So, it's good, but it's not like, "Oh my
god, this is the best thing ever. I
rolled the crit, guys. I win. I killed
the dragon." No. No. Uh, critical fails
only occur under very specific
circumstances. I believe it's already
bad enough to fail a role without adding
insult to injury unnecessarily. So, a
fumble in this case, if you critically
fail when attacking,
basically uh what happens is any engaged
opponents may immediately leave me uh
from you. So, basically, if you're
engaged with somebody, you can't just
walk away, right? you you have to either
flee, which is a bad idea, or do a
fighting withdrawal.
But if you fumble your attack, that
gives them a second to be able to
disengage and go somewhere else. So,
it's stuff like that, right? As opposed
to, oh, I I've dropped my sword and cut
my own head off. No, I hate that stuff.
All right. Can you tell I have an
opinion? I don't know if it's clear. I
have an opinion on things. Yeah. Okay.
Combat maneuvers. All right. This is
unabashedly taken from Mithris. This was
one of the greatest greatest evolutions
of game design I've ever seen.
How many times, my friends, how many
times have you been in a situation where
you say to the GM, "All right, see that
guy? He's got that sword in his hand.
Well, I don't want to kill him cuz we're
trying to capture him. I want to disarm
him. How do I do that?" And the GM said,
flips looks through the combat guide and
says, "Oh, okay. Make an attack roll
with minus4 and you'll do it. And what
do you say? You say, "I had to hell with
it. I just hit him because I don't want
the minus four." Who wants the minus
four? Nobody wants the minus four. So,
Mithris, all power and glory upon them,
came up with this concept. I think it
was them. I'm pretty sure it was Pete
and Law that did this.
When you succeed in a combat exchange,
and a combat exchange is an attack and a
defense. I attack you, you defend. If I
miss, you don't have to roll. And no,
there's no action points. Defending
doesn't take an action. You can defend
all day long if you want, but there are
certain caveats to that.
Um, so if I attack and you defend, the
result of that determines things. So
let's say I attack and I get five SLS
and you defend and you get two SLs. I
win with three SLs. Three net SLs,
right? You got a piece of it. You got a
piece of it. Those three SLs do damage
plus my weapon. So if my weapon damage
is four, four plus three is seven. I'm
going to do seven points of damage. But
those three SLs also allow me to perform
a combat maneuver
whose cost is based either on a standard
cost like unbalancing or driving back or
it's based on the weapon. Choose
location, circumvent shield, that kind
of stuff. That's why those numbers in
the those four numbers in the weapons
column are so important. The smaller
weapons are faster. They can get around
shields, but it's harder to knock a guy
prone with that little dagger, right?
>> Damage bonus plus the
>> Yes. And that is very very important.
It's it's marked somewhere here. Um that
it's not an eitheror situation. You
don't have to say, "Well, I've got three
SLS. I'm just going to do the damage."
No, no, you do the damage and you get
your combat maneuver. If you get a
critical, you get to do two combat
maneuvers, but you must qualify for it.
If I got a net 2SL hit on you, I cannot
drive you back because that costs three
unless I have a special talent that
allows me to do that, right? Uh, these
are all awesome. Unbalanced is the
general one. I've I fought you back so
that you're doing this. So, your next
role is going to be minus 20. You're on
the You're on the defense. Whatever you
do. Uh oh. Uh oh. Right. Drive back.
This is what keeps combats mobile and
interesting, especially when you have
interesting zones and zone descriptors.
If I'm in a clear zone and my and and
next to us is a zone with a bunch of
sharp rocks,
if I get three SLS on my attack on you,
I can choose to drive you back and take
you into that next zone. And because
it's rough, now you have to do an
athletics test or you fall prone. That's
awesome. Now you're prone. you're in big
trouble if you're prone. So, if there's
also a zone descriptor bonus I can tag
to do that, I can do it there. So, these
are all great. Unbalanced drive someone
back. Choose location. It's a big deal.
Why? Because we have peace armor. When
you wear chain mail, you're not wearing
a full suit of chain mail. Are you
wearing a chain mail vest? Are you
wearing chain mail sleeves? Are you
wearing chain mail leggings? Are you
wearing a chain hood? This is important
because each location when you hit that
location has a different effect. This is
not a game of hit points. You do not do
five hit points, nothing happens. Seven
hit points, nothing happens. 10 hit
points, oh, he's dead. Mm- Every hit in
this game has the potential to be a
fightending hit. Notice I did not say a
deadly hit. I said a fightending hit
because there's something called shock,
which we're about to get into, which
comes from Hornmaster, one of my
favorites.
Choose location. Circumvent shield.
Cleave shield. This is with a big two
weapon. You can smash the guy's shield
into pieces. Disarm. Trip shield. Bash.
Compel surrender. Oh, Pete and Laws were
masters when they came up with this one.
I love the idea that you can end a fight
without killing a dude. Love that.
Compel surrender means you don't do any
actual damage to your opponent. But if
you get three SLS and they are
sufficiently disadvantaged. What does
that mean based on the context? But
there's some some examples. He has one
or more three-point wounds. He's prone,
disarmed, outnumbered, or is any or is
under any other disadvantage condition
that the GM decides. Keep that open
because it's all about the context. If
that happens, he's going to make a
willpower roll against your attack role.
And if he fails, I give up. Don't kill
me. This is the best thing ever. We have
ended so many fights this way. It's so
satisfying. I will tell you this, too.
In general, fights to the broken empires
tend to last
four rounds tops before it's decided.
So, you don't have the D&D syndrome.
Okay, it's my turn. I'll be back in an
hour after I roll. Okay, have fun, guys.
Okay, I'm going to go get a pizza and
when we come back, it'll be my turn
again. That is not the case here.
Okay, I'm really hard on D and D. I
shouldn't be. It is the foundational
game,
but
>> forgive you. We understand.
>> Thank you.
>> Compel, surrender, grapple, which of
course it wouldn't be a role playing
game without really complex grappling
rules,
>> but they work.
>> Modern D and D
was a lot.
>> Uh, yeah. Yeah, for sure. Well, it
depends who you ask, but you
>> Yeah. Oh, yeah. The third and nuts.
Yeah, like if you look at AD and D for
example, that was when Gary was like,
"Wait a minute, everybody's making their
own rules. Oh, I can't sell books that
way. No, I'm going to introduce weapon
speed factor. Yeah, that'll do it." Um,
but before that, it was very much what
the OSR movement is today, which is, I
don't know, we'll just roll your
dexterity, you know, people love that
because it keeps things fast. I've said
many times, for those of you who don't
know this game, I've said many, many
times that every game exists on a
spectrum between detail of resolution
and speed of resolution. This game falls
on this side of the detail of
resolution, but then I pull it back to
the center, right? Game like myths or
Hardmaster. I love these games, but
they're deep in the weeds with
simulationism, and so it takes a longer
time to get through a fight. I just
wanted things to move a little faster.
That's what this whole thing is designed
to do.
>> Do you have A through Ess
no, no.
Okay. Um, we'll talk about damage in a
second. Hit locations. Uh, each piece of
armor has different armor points. So,
why do you choose location? If you're
fighting a guy and he's very smart and
has a plate helmet on, then hitting him
in the head probably won't do much. But
if he's only got padding on his legs,
then hitting him in his leg might sweep
his leg out from underneath him or cause
him to buckle and fall. Prone. Oh,
glorious prone. How we love prone. Or if
he doesn't have a lot of armor in the
arm and you hit him in the right arm, it
might cause damage. It might cause him
to drop his weapon. he's in big trouble.
That's why. Also,
if a guy's wounded in the right arm, hit
him in the right arm, guys, because we
can really him up if we hit him on
the right arm, right? Concentration of
fire, I believe we call that.
Okay.
Uh, options, options, options,
situational rules,
blah, blah, blah. All the usual stuff
you need to know. Uh, combat modifier
reference table
wounds healing and perils. Let me go
back to this one.
Yes. With me? Yes. I haven't bored you
horribly so far.
Ouch. No, I'm just kidding.
Okay.
>> Uh, we're doing good for time. We're
doing for time. Racing through. But as
long as you're you're I'm not seeing too
many sleepy faces, so that's a good
sign.
And again, feel free to stop me at any
time if you have any questions.
All right. No, no, don't stop me now.
No, I'm just kidding.
>> So, so you have this Google Docs pages
document. When you release the PDF, will
you also release like something like
that? So, if there's for example certain
pages we want to print, ask players
printer printer page.
>> No, not this. But the PDF will have a
printer friendly version. I think I'm
authorized to say that. I think my my
guy is planning to do that. Um, we are
also we might have to release what I
call the ASKI document. It's not at all
an ASKI document, but it's it's it's
essentially a version of this. It's a
text version of that. The only reason
why I would do that is if our schedule
is running too late, which yes, our
schedule is running late because it's
the world and we live in it and things
happen and artists don't get back to me
in time and all kinds of things happen.
So, yes, we are running a little behind.
It's not devastating, but a little
behind. But I had promised my backers,
I'd said, "You will be able to play this
game in 2025, thinking I'd have a fully
finished PDF for you this morning.
This is not it. So, we're behind. I want
to keep that promise to my backers at
the very least. And I I had a big big
pow-wow meeting with my guys and I said
they need to have the rules by Christmas
at the latest and way before that if
possible. And they said, "Okay, we'll
probably be ready for that, but if we're
not, if we run into some horrible thing,
we will release the ASKY document, which
is essentially like an SRD." So, in a
way, the answer is yes and no. Right? I
want not to do that because I would
rather release the actual thing which
then will have print printer f printer
friendly pages but if I have to you will
get this
>> brought it up.
>> Yeah.
>> Or will there be a powered by broken
empires program?
>> Not at the moment.
>> I'm keeping careful regulation on my
baby
but that may change. Yeah. If if there's
enough I was about to say outcry. If
there's enough demand
if there's enough demand for it, then
we'll talk about it.
>> Yes, I get that. The Black Lodge guys
are on me every time. So, uh, you going
to open license or uh I'm like, just go
away. Go. I don't want to. Okay.
Okay. This is great. Marking a wound.
So, you've taken damage from a sword.
Some guy has come up to you and he
stabbed you in the belly. The bastard.
And he has got uh three SLS and his
sword does four. So, he's done seven
damage. You didn't defend at all. You
blew your defense roll. So, you've taken
seven damage. Do you have any armor?
Let's say you have three points of
armor. Let's say you've got leather.
Smart man. Armor. Armor saves lives. So
now instead of a seven-point wound,
you've taken a four-point wound. Doesn't
sound so bad.
Every wound has the potential to throw
you into shock. How it works is every
time you get hit, you look at the total
wound points you have in that body
section. Okay? Now, I said belly. When
how do I know if I've hit you in the
belly? Well, how I know if I've hit you
in the body is I look at my ones die.
The 10's die is the success level, but
the ones die is the hit location. So, if
I rolled a 65,
65, yes, one to five is the body, which
means I've hit you in the body. But how
do I know it's the belly? Well, on your
character sheet, which I should really
pull up here so you can see it on your
character sheet, it's right here. Look,
body one to five, right arm six, head
10. It's right there. But also detailed
locations. Look at this. I've hit you in
the body. And I said I said belly or
stomach. Well, that's between that's
between six and eight. It says right
there. But how do I know that? I know
that because the ones die of your
defense role tells me that's the
detailed location. Yeah. Wow. That's not
even my idea. That's a backer's idea on
Discord. I was like, dude, I'm going to
steal that.
>> That's great.
>> I know. It's so cool. Thank you, whoever
you are.
Yeah. So great. It just saves the role,
right? It's so much information packed
into our exchange. My attack, your
defense. Boom. Okay. Right. So, I've
done a four-point wound in your belly.
Stabby m.
What happens? You must then roll a
woundy. A woundy is a d10
to which you add your toughness,
which you buy in character creation. You
can also buy his talents as you go. So
if you roll that d10 and you add your
toughness, if you get the total wound
points in the body location or less,
you are impaired.
If it's over, you're okay. You're fine.
What does impaired mean? It depends on
the location that gets impaired.
If the first time the first time you're
impaired in the body, you might have to
well you'll have to do an endurance
roll. And if you fail that, you drop in
shock for a number of rounds equal to
the number on the wound die. So the
worse you roll, the longer you're in
shock. If you're in shock in a fight,
you're done. It's over. You're not
getting back up unless you have a friend
who can get in there and revive you.
That sounds brutal, and it is. So, be
careful when you fight. Make sure your
toughness is up. Make sure you're
wearing armor. Make sure you're good at
defending yourself. Make sure you have
friends who can get in there with the
hero. But we have seen throughout the
play testing process. Shock falling into
shock. It's not as common as you might
fear, but it's common enough to make
every single player going, "Okay, we're
getting into melee combat. Here we go."
Everybody. And I love that. Nobody goes,
"Come on, I'm a 10th level fighter. I
can take these goblins e that goblin
could do a onepoint wound to you." And
if you have no toughness and you roll a
one, good night, Irene
for a minute. So, it could happen.
Depending where you hit though, it might
not be shock immediately in the head. If
you get hit in the head the first time,
it's impaired. You're stunned, rung your
bell, which gives you a little penalty.
It's like being unbalanced.
The second time any body location is
impaired. Good night. That's it.
Overwhelming pain. You're done. Being in
shock does not mean dead. It means, "Oh
god,
get me a medic." That's what being in
shock means. You can still crawl. You
can crawl to safety, but um but you're
done with enemies. Again, so many times
this is born out in the play testing.
You don't have to fight to the death. In
fact, most things will not fight to the
death. There's a factor in the uh for
every creature in the beast area called
ferocity. Ferocity determines whether or
not a creature is going to fight to the
death. Goes from one to five. One, you
insult him, he flees. Five, it's like an
undead that it's the Terminator. It's
coming at you. There's nothing you do to
stop it. And then everything in between.
Most things are around two. In other
words, most living creatures, if you
shove a gank of steel into their leg,
okay, you win, pal. I'm out. Right.
So, sending enemies into shock in our
play tests was overwhelmingly the way
that we won or compelling the surrender.
Just displaying overwhelming force and
the enemies went, "Oh, yep. Yep. Okay,
you won this. Don't kill me." Right?
Depends what you're fighting, obviously.
Okay. You look at your question. have a
reputation for murder hoboing and never
offering surrender and offering everyone
they find. Is it harder or easy harder
to get people to surrender or is it
still mechanically just as easy if they
know they're just going to be instantly
slaughtered?
>> You tell me.
>> The GM then can't hear you.
>> Yes.
>> How do you go about?
>> Aha. Good question. So this is one of
those things, right? I want to attack
his leg. Okay. Roll minus four. No,
choose location. the choose location
combat maneuver. Right? So, if I
succeeded with enough SLS to be able to
I don't want to hit him in the left arm.
I want to hit him in the right leg where
he's already wounded and he's got no
armor. Choose location. Right? If you
get a critical, you get to do two combat
maneuvers. So, that might be circumvent
shield. Choose location or choose
location. Drive back or or or or right.
Okay.
So, yeah, in shock is bad, but it's not
dead. You also have something called
athal. Yes sir.
>> Magic. Does it give you any kind of
bonuses or difference in shot?
>> It can. Yeah, magic uh is incredibly
versatile. That's a whole thing. We'll
get to the Yeah, we will get to I
promise.
Anyway, so the point is there's also uh
wounds are bad, but they're not
necessarily deadly. There are something
called lethality level. If you fall into
shock, and it's based on your your
particular body location. If you fall
into shock and your total wound points
are over your lethality level, you're
actually dying. And every round, you
have to roll that wound die to see if
you expire, right? So, it's again,
friends are good. Friends are good. Get
in there, do a heal check, stabilize the
wound. You might stabilize
automatically. If you roll a 10 on the
wound eye when you're dying, you
stabilize. You're good. So, it's not
necessarily the end of the world, but
it's it's bad, right? It's bad. Um, yes,
sir.
rolling hill check. Um, is there an item
or anything where you might have where
you don't have to roll? Like I know in D
and D you got like the main kit.
>> Oh yeah. Well, uh, you unless it's
unless it's some sort of pure magic
item, you would always have to roll.
That's why you've got medical supplies.
Remember, every time you do a heal check
for anything, you have to also roll your
medical supplies to see if they degrade.
So, if you have no medical supplies
left, you can't perform a heal check.
You've got no bandages left, right? Um,
so that's how that works. This is a big
chapter. I'm not going to go through
everything because there's a lot here,
but it's awesome. All right. Dying
death. Yes. Yeah. Oh, yes. Oh, yes.
>> Supply die. So, I've played in different
games. Some of them you have to roll
supply die before the action. Some of
them
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Good question. Uh, you do the
thing and then roll the dice.
>> Yeah. It's always assumed you have the
thing if you've got any die. Yeah.
mentioned equality level.
>> Yes.
>> Is that something that accumulates when
you
>> So what that means is it's it's a level
and it's written right in the character
sheet. Well, you can't see it here, but
it's written in the character sheet
right where you need to see it. It is a
it's a threshold. So at any point if
your total boon points, which you can
see written right there, if they go over
that lethality level, there's no effect
on you unless you are in shock. If you
drop in shock when the total wound
points in that location are over the
lethality level, now you're dying,
right? And it's different. So like the
head has a much lower lethality level.
It's only five, whereas the body is
something like eight or something like
that, which doesn't sound like a lot,
but remember one or two points in this
game is a big deal. There's also
something called death threshold, which
is essentially a kind of hit point. It
just means you can only take so many
wound points in total before you're
done, right? Typical characters are 20.
You could take a total of 20 points
before that's it, which is actually very
generous. Again, I throw a bobble to the
players.
[Laughter]
>> Are there enemies with only that? So,
like zombies that just don't care.
>> Correct.
>> Correct. That's why undead are brutal in
this game. You know, I put my characters
in a in a play test against five
skeletons. They got their asses kicked
by five skeletons. So, this is not your
father's DNG game.
All right. Blah blah blah blah. Death
threshold, non-lethal wounds, healing
wounds. So, good. But we're going to go
past it. Rest in recovery. I will just
say um
in order to heal your wounds, you need
to have someone treat it. And then you
have to uh each wound recovers
individually. That comes from
Hornmaster.
There's reasons for that. Mostly because
if you ever um you do an endurance role
basically basically for each wound but
only when you're in a place of rest and
if you succeed at that that wound gets
better. If you fail it doesn't if you
fumble that wound becomes infected which
is a whole other thing. But rest
recovery so crucial but it depends where
you are. Every hex on the world map to
the GM's eyes only has a danger level.
uh uh green, which is the best, normal,
yellow, and red. The more dangerous the
area that the players are trying to rest
in, the harder it is to recover because
there's What's that? No one's really
getting any sleep if there's enemies
prowling around, right? You also recover
resolve points. Resolve is huge because
it's your it's your extra bonuses to
fuel anything you want, but you only get
it back by resting. And it's all about
the quality of rest you get. So just I'm
going to take my long rest outside the
dungeon. Oh, I don't think you are, my
friend. I don't think you are. So again,
it's contingent upon the players to
do the smart thing, right? It's all the
the entire game, the entire game, the
underlying philosophy is choice and
consequence, choice and consequence,
choice and consequence. Every choice has
a consequence, right? Okay.
Rest and recovery, magical healing,
we're going to get to that. Divine
healing, we'll get to all that.
infection. So many great rules. Oh, so
many ways to lose limbs to sepsis.
Other perils, you've got your acid, you
got your cold, freezing, you got your
drowning, you got your falling, you got
all the good stuff. Okay, let's get into
travel. Um, boy, got to go fast. Okay,
travel is heavily influenced by the one
ring,
unless it's not. There's essentially two
different systems. There is the one ring
style which is we are on an epic journey
crossing hundreds of miles. How are we
going to abstract that while still using
our skills and feeling the weight of the
road, feeling the dirt of the road? That
is what this system does. That's what
the run ring does and that's what I
went. Oh, I love that. Travel in my game
makes the players feel like, oh man, we
got here. It's awesome. But they feel so
like they've accomplished something. We
got to the dungeon. My god, we did it,
guys. Now, let's go in and die.
So, that's one version of travel. It's
all about roles. You need your guide,
your quartermaster, your scout. They do
things. There's all kind There just a
whole host of rand If you don't like
anything about this game, if you think
this game sucks, I want to go back to D
and D. Buy it for the random encounter
tables that the GM generates for the
travel system. It is unbelievable.
Again, Jason Loots to the rescue.
Fantastic.
So great.
I love improv and I love creation the
moment. So many tools of that. So the
travel system whole thing so cool, but
it's about trying not to get tired. You
do not want to arrive at your
destination full of fatigue because
that's bad. Fatigue impacts your
resolve. Without resolve, you don't have
those extra bonuses to help you get
through. So it's not the end of the
world, but it's not good. I'd rather
have the resolve points than not. Right?
So that is the journey system. Then
there's what we call the daily time
system, which is just basically we are
exploring. We don't know what's out
here. You know what? Let's let's explore
these hex's and see what's there. Okay.
Yep. There's rules for that, too.
They're very similar, but they're
slightly different because the focus is
different. Now, the focus is on daily
survival. Daily. Okay. We need our
rations. We need to make our ration
dies. And there's a there's a procedure.
Here's something I found. A lot of GMs
who see these kind of rules go, "Oh,
this is just a bunch of die rolling.
That's stupid. Why would I do that?" To
which I say, "If you just make it a
bunch of die rolling, you're not GMing
the game. You're just rolling dice."
Anything can be just reduced to a bunch
of mindless dice rolling. God knows
combat can, right? We've all been in
that game. Here we go. Here we go. Well,
of course, if you run the game like
that, it's going to suck. But this is
designed I've got a whole thing in here
about how to evoke the broken empires
for your player, how to get them to
smell the trees, to feel and hear the
wind. Man, you want to put them there.
You want to put them in the world so
that they feel like that I'm not like
they're going to go nuts and you know,
but but they want to have that that
powerful vision in their imagination.
That's what my players love about my
games. They feel like they've been
there. They feel like they were there.
They feel like they went through the
trials their characters went through.
And they're exhausted. I'm not going to
lie. They're exhausted after my
sessions, but they go, "That is the best
gaming we've ever done, but god damn,
that's a hard game."
That's what this is. Or camping. Doesn't
have to be. Of course, you can dial
things back, make it easier, blah blah
blah. All right. Uh, so travel is so
cool. So cool. Then we get to intrigue.
So intrigue is basically the social
encounters. All right. There's a lot
here, but let me just say accommodate,
not replace. The rules for social
encounters are only when the players
need something of importance from an
NPC. This is not I want to bribe the
guard. Social encounter, guys. No, no,
no, no, no, no. You want to bribe the
guard, put some money down, maybe make a
role, depending. It's fine. Social
encounters are all right. We're in the
court of the barren, and we need his
permission to cross his lands with this
group of soldiers
because we need to get to a place and do
a thing, but we need his permission to
do it. How are we going to do it? That's
what this is. when there's something at
stake, when the social battlefield
becomes just as important to detail
tactically as the physical combat
battlefield. That's what this is. But
notice I don't use the term social
combat. This is not about knocking
someone's social hit points down. This
is about
getting what you want from that person
before you exceed their tolerance.
something else from the one ring. The
one ring says anybody of importance that
you talk to has only got so much time
for you. So make a case. Make your case
while you can. The great thing players
don't know what that tolerance is
unless they infer it through context.
But even then, I'm not sure is it five
or seven or three. Be very careful what
you say. Here's the thing in this
system.
The role playinging of the player
triggers the skill of the character.
We have all seen that classic situation.
We're all sitting around playing D and D
and the very charismatic player who
everybody loves who he's a real charmer.
He's playing a guy with a charisma of
four, but he starts to sweet talk the DM
and sweet talk these characters. The DM
says, "How could I say no to you?"
That's not roleplaying.
That's using your gifts and skills to
manipulate the GM to get what you want.
And if that's your thing, all the power
to you. That is not my thing. My thing
is I want to play a character. I want
the character skill to matter. But I
still want to retain control of how I
direct that character to act. The role
playinging triggers the skill. Here's
how it works. My lord, my lege, I
beseech you, me and my comrades. We must
pass through your lands with these five
soldiers. Yes, be they bandits. We know
their attitude. We know their
reputation. But I beseech you, my lord,
without your permission, we cannot cross
these lands and raid the tower of blah
blah blah blah blah. I beg I beg you,
sir, from from one minor lord to
another. I beg you, sir. The GM says,
"That sounds a lot like the protocol
skill. Roll that." And that player who
knows that his character's got a good
protocol skill says, "Yes, I believe I
will. Thank you." And he rolls. Maybe he
says, "I want to spend two points of
resolve on this to get a plus 20." Okay,
maybe he does. Great. What if the player
who's a very fiery player who is playing
a very noble knight now? exact same
situation, but the player is very
reactive. And the player maybe hasn't
thought about the skills of the
character. And the player says, "Damn
it, Lord. If you don't let us through,
everyone's going to die." And the GM
says, "Roll and intimidate." And the
player says, "Intimidate. I was trying
to persuade him." The table goes, "Fuck
that. No, you weren't. Look what you
did. You basically threatened his
kingdom, dude. Intimidate." And I, as a
GM, don't have to do that. at the table
does that most of the time. But then I
as a GM do that too, just to make sure.
So he goes, "Oh, oh, but my my
intimidate sucks." Uhhuh. Should have
thought of that before you open your
mouth like that. It sounds harsh. Sounds
punishing. It is not. The players only
need to learn this lesson once. And once
they do, social encounters become some
of the most wonderfully tense tactical
situations you can imagine. But there's
some buyin. Players have to buy into
this. They have to they have to
understand. This is crucial and this is
spelled out in in the rules. Everyone
has to speak the same language.
Everybody has to understand what the
difference between persuade and
intimidate is. Everybody has to
understand the subtle nuances between
wit and deceive or whatever. Now, those
are spelled out in the book, but it
doesn't matter. as a table, you still
have to make sure you're all speaking
the same language because the last thing
you want is the player says the thing
and you say, "Sounds like an
intimidate." And he goes, "I totally
thought that was persuasive." What? And
he's being genuine.
That can happen. At which point, you
have an option. The option is typically,
okay, that's fine. I'll give it to you
this time, but for next time, let's
remember what persuade means, right?
Look it up. Oh, persuade is not
threatening their kingdom. Oh, okay. All
right.
He's just speaking the same language.
That's all. It's like session zero
stuff, right? We all want to make sure
we're playing the same game. So, that's
how this works. If you have people that
don't Well, that's how this works.
That's how this works. And I'm telling
you, I've been using this system for
years. I adopt this system in every game
I run. Doesn't matter what the system
is.
And it's awesome. But everybody speak
language and characters need goals. They
need to want something from this NPC.
Otherwise, it doesn't work, right?
So cool. And there's all kinds of
nuances. There is standard, there's
competitive roles where you might have
like in that same situation, my lord,
you must beseech us. And then his
counselor who really hates you says,
"No, my lege. Do not allow these scum
across the land." That becomes a
competition now. Now maybe he knocks
down your success levels and you have to
say, "No, he's he's put your fork tongue
behind your teeth." And then you get
some more. And look at that. Now you got
a little contest going on. And isn't it
great? Yes, it is. Take my word for it.
All right, moving on.
Yeah, so many things in here. Let's get
on to weave magic. The big one.
Ars Magica.
Who knows it?
Okay. All right. Okay. This is going to
blow your mind then, dude. Uh, this
system is highly influenced by ours
magicka and by mage, by white wolf. Why
mage? Because mage has a concept called
paradox. What that means is when you
when you fuss with reality, reality
notices and reality punishes you and
say, "Hey, hey, hey, what are you doing
creating lightning out of a clear blue
sky and throwing it at this guy in a
dungeon?
That's not real."
That's what paradox does. So too in this
world the weave of reality of the the
great tapestry of reality wants to
remain interlaced with itself and spellw
weavers literally pull at the fabric of
reality and rew weave it into images
that please them. That is how they
change reality.
Reality hates that. Reality fights back.
So that's paradox. Arsmaga influenced
Ars Magika systematized all of magic by
saying there are five ways to manipulate
the universe and there are 10 parts of
the universe to be manipulated.
So
the binds and strand,
the binds, how you bind the weave to
your will. Change, conjure, control,
destroy, witness,
change, I alter the properties of
control, I make things work according to
my desires.
To conjure, I I create, I bring into
existence.
Destroy.
I destroy. I cause damage. Witness. I
see. I observe. I perceive. Those are
the five ways to manipulate reality. How
do you or what about reality do you
manipulate? Air. All. Sound.
Electricity. All of that stuff is air.
Beast. Anything to do with the animal
world. Body. Anything to do with life,
the human body, properties of the
humanoid physical form. Earth,
terrestrial materials, minerals, soil,
metal, rock, fire, not just fire, but
also light that produces heat.
uh plant spheres. Spheres is magic
itself. The dimensions, the other realms
of existence,
thought, imagination,
uh
dreams, mind,
spirit, the spirit realm, ghosts,
undead, and water, any precipitation,
snow, ice, all of that stuff. Now, some
of these things may overlap.
Mhm. That's fine. That's up to you.
There is a paragraph in this section
that says, "Of all the sections in this
game, this one is the most important for
you to set your own boundaries because
magic by its very definition
can do anything until it can't. There
are five laws to magic.
The bounded laws of magic. The law of
mystery. This is my favorite one. The
law of mystery says some things you
can't explain. How does that magic item
work? Nobody knows. It just does. Shut
up.
That's your get out of jail free card as
a adventure designer. Why is the tower
floating? That doesn't work. That's the
mystery.
the law of limitation. These are things
that magic cannot do. You cannot affect
time or reverse the course of aging. You
cannot affect the sun or the moon or any
of the heavenly bodies. You cannot bring
back the dead, nor can you create life.
Only the pale imitation of life. Many,
many things,
yada yada yada.
This law can also cover anything else
the GM deems impossible. Again, your
game, you set the boundaries with your
players, right? They need to know. Speak
the same language. They need to know.
Hey GM, can I use magic to jump to the
moon? This law is the law of no, you
can't jump to the moon
because it's also the law of because I
think it's stupid and will break this
game. That's why.
So, another get out of jail free card.
But basically, there's things that magic
can do and there's things that magic
can't do. Why is this important? Because
if you have magic that can do anything
you can imagine, you no longer have a
game. You have a wish-ranting machine
for which there can be no rules. And we
are playing a game and a game requires
rules. And these are the rules.
Limitations. Yeah. Has to be done. Law
of resistance basically means anytime
magic tries to affect you, you can
resist it. Magic is extremely versatile
and extremely powerful. But you always
get a chance to say nope.
Now, that'll depend on the strength of
the spell coming in at you, which is
based on the bind role of the caster.
His SL role, his SL becomes your target
SL. So, if he's got a skill of 60, he
rolls a 52. He succeeded with five. You
must succeed with five SLs,
right? But you get a chance always,
always, always, always. And it's all or
nothing. If he blasts you with a
lightning bolt, which is a very stupid
thing to do, as you will see when we
come to weave reactions, but if he does
so, you don't get a piece of it like you
do if you're defending. It's all or
nothing. I completely resist it or I
suck it up, princess. All right.
Law of logic. This is my favorite one.
And this is crucial when you have a
system that is designed to be peacemeal
where you can create your own thing. The
law of logic says one thing must lead to
another along a path of simple logic.
big paragraph that explains what that
means. It just means when you are trying
to create a magical effect, you have to
try and seat it in reality. You have to
seat it in the world. How would that
work,
right? Like for example, creating a
skeleton warrior to fight for you would
would follow something similar to this
process. First, you'd cast a conjure
body spell to create the skeleton out of
nothing. Okay, so there's a pile of
lifeless bones on the ground. Now you
must animate it with the control body.
Great. You've got a skeleton that it can
move by your command. Any attack it
makes will be bony little fists. You may
need to conjure earth to create a sword
for it. What weapon skill does it use?
Well, according to the law of
limitation, because it is controlled by
you, it uses half your weapon skill and
so forth. Logic. What does that mean in
your game specifically? I don't know.
That's up to you. But you will see that
there is a formula for creating magic.
And once you understand that formula,
you'll be able to apply your own logic
to it. And as long as you're doing that
with your magic using player, you'll be
fine. Yeah.
And finally, the law of reaction. My
favorite. Reality fights back. Every
time you cast a spell that there's
there's two parts to it. The first one
is to cast it. I'm going to think up
this thing. Oh, that sounds cool. Do I
have the appropriate bind and strand to
combine in order to make my roll and
have the thing happened? I do. Great. I
roll. I succeeded. Great. Awesome. Yes,
the spell works. Now, can you control
it? Your bind skill is about your raw
skill to make the spell happen. The
strand skill is not a D100 number. It is
a singledigit number in most cases. The
strand number
offsets the cost of the spell. When you
create a spell, it is built the
following way.
It is built
with
magnitude, which we'll come to in a
second. Target, who is the target? How
many targets? Range, where where is the
target? Duration, how long does the
effect last? And effect, what is the
effect to? magnitude is
how offensive to the weave this is. So,
you look at all of this together and you
each of these things have points. And
when you create a spell, you go, "Oh,
this is a 15 SL spell, which means you
must come up with 15 SL's worth in order
to control the spell." Not to cast it.
You just need to succeed at your skill
to cast it. But you think, "I can't get
15 SL's. I only have a skill of 60."
Correct. The best you can do with your
skill is nine SLS. Why? Because in this
game, if you roll your skill exactly,
it's also counts as a critical, which is
plus three. So if you have a skill of 60
and you roll 60, it's actually nine SLS
instead of six. You can only get nine. I
can't possibly get to 15. Yes, you can.
You look at your strand value. You you
add that. Let's say your strand's five.
Okay, so I had nine. Now I have Oh, I
have 14 SLS. I'm only short one. Great.
You can let that happen or you can spend
a resolve to cover the spread. That is
why resolve is crucial for spellw
weavers. Crucial. They use their resolve
to cover the spread. Now, you don't have
to cover the spread. You can just say,
"See what happens, weave, bring it on."
Because if you cast a spell and you do
not control it, the weave goes, "Okay,
let's see what this gu is doing."
at which point you roll the d20 and you
add the amount of SLS you did not cover
in your spread to that d20 and you look
at our little handy ddaddyy chart and it
tells you the world explodes
the world never explodes and neither do
you bad things can happen sometimes good
things can happen weave reactions aren't
always bad they're only mostly bad
typically as a spell weaver you don't
want weave reactions
there's something for a spell weaver
called fraying,
which I'll get to, but it's it's a
crucial limiting factor with spellw
weavers destroy the world. All right.
Yes. Everyone with me? Yeah. Okay.
Spellw weavers also have magic items
called threads. Threads are physicalized
pieces of the weave that they use to
fuel their spells. They are like gold to
spellw weavers. My staff is a
plant thread that gives me a d10
resource die supply die in plant. Every
time I cast a plantbased spell, I can
add a certain amount of SLS to that to
control it. And there's different types
of threads. Some some go away, some are
limited use, some are not.
>> Yes,
>> that's correct.
>> Thank you. Well, thank you. I am a
professional. Yeah. Uh
yeah, but it it's important threads are
are are just as I mean they're go they
are the currency of spellw weavers and
there's um there's permanent threads,
location based threads. This is where
you get these spell weavers who discover
this this pool that gives water and
control thread. And now they they build
their fortress around that because they
know they can constantly draw on this.
Right.
>> Keep going for that part.
>> Yes.
Did you kill?
>> I actually did come up with something
original. I know it's hard to believe.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Yes.
>> Okay.
>> I keep thinking of your example, you
know.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Your staff is broken.
>> SL.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Okay. So, there's so much
here. All the different kinds of effects
you can do, but we should cover it. Uh,
I will never be able to tell you all the
things that your players or you want to
do in this game because it's magic. So,
what I've done is given all of the
things I could think of that players
might do. For example, the effect of the
spell might be something that affects a
skill value, something that it's used to
attack, something that heals,
something that uh enhances a weapon or
enhances armor points. You get the idea.
This is not a game of spell lists. You
create your own effect every time you
cast.
There is no spell lists. There is a
whole list of example spells in the book
so you get a good idea of the relative
power and what these things might look
like, but there are no spell lists. You
decide. You can also create your own. I
always want to do this same kind of
spell. I'm going to write that down so I
know every time. Oh, it's 14s. Yeah, I
got it. Yes. How radically if someone's
like, "Okay, I want to play a healer or
a flesh mage, so they take body magic
and spawn against be."
>> Um, how radical would a standard PC be
able to change things? Is it instant
heal from mortality or is it okay,
you're not going to immediately die and
you'll heal in 4 days instead of five?
>> Uh, that depends on the effect that you
pay for and mostly the magnitude. This
is a crucial idea. Every spell has a
magnitude between zero and lots.
There's four levels. Uh, I should
probably look this up because I'm
talking about my own game and I should
know what I'm talking about. Where are
you? Magnitude.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, here we go. Yeah. Discreet, subtle,
offensive, and vulgar. What this means
is every time you describe and build
your spell, the GM decides how offensive
to the weave is the spell. The more
subtle your magic, the less the
magnitude. That is why if you're in the
dungeon underground and you say, "I
conjure a lightning bolt out of midair
and attack that dude." That is a vulgar
 spell, my friends. That is
crazy. There is no way that can happen.
And there is there's specific guidance
for each of these. Okay? Your goal is to
be as discreet as possible. If you can
c, for example, I want to heal somebody,
but I take all the time in the world and
I take my bandages out and I I go
through the process of making a heal
roll, but really what I'm doing is
casting a spell and I allow that to
happen over the course of hours.
Discreet. The weave goes, "Yeah, no, I
didn't see anything."
The goal in this game is to be Gandalf,
not racic.
Subtle.
There are guys walking around casting
fireballs. But here's why you don't do
that. There is a concept in the game
called fraying. As I've already
mentioned,
think of fraying like an inevitable
dementia.
There's something in ours magica called
Wizards Twilight. It's inspired by this,
but it's worse than that.
One of the common things that can happen
if you don't control the spell, and
remember the higher the magnitude, the
higher the cost of the spell. You cast
that vulgar spell, that 15 SL spell is
now a 25 SL spell. Remember how that
works? D20 plus the difference that you
can't cover. The higher you roll on that
table, the more likely you're going to
accumulate fraying. Fraying is the weave
saying, "I see you. I see what you're
doing." The weave starts to fray your
pattern until eventually the weave says,
"I am plucking you out of the pattern of
reality and you come with me."
When that happens, there is no going
back. Every spell weaver is a ticking
time bomb. Every spell weaver knows the
day that they hit a certain level of
fraying, every spell they cast could rip
them body and soul from reality forever.
No, there is no cure. Yes, there are a
million spellw weavers desperately
trying to find a cure.
That is the limiting factor. So, you
want to be that dude who's blasting
people in the underground with
lightning, be my guest.
But your days are numbered and
eventually the weave will come for you.
That is how we get around the leveling
problem
with Magic. Every game says, "Oh, a
level one spell is just a very small."
But hey, a level nine spell is
gargantuan. You're a starting character.
You can cast a level nine spell if you
want
if you're willing to pay the price.
Choice, consequence.
I love it. All right, so weave magic.
Super cool. Oh, we're running out of
time. Okay. Uh
let's talk very briefly about my other
favorite thing, divine magic. Divine
magic is
um inspired kind of by Hornmaster but
not really. Here's here's my thing. I
have always believed that the two
sources of magic are different. Arcane
and divine are different things.
Clerics, priests, whatever you want to
call them, they're called godbound in
this world.
They do not do anything other than
petition their deity for help. That's
it. They have no control. Jon of Arc
never said, "God, here's what I want you
to do. I want you to hit that English
tower with a fireball and I want it to
do 66 damage and I want to spread the
effect over the first floor." No. Jon of
Arc said, "Help me, O Lord. Protect me."
And whether or not you believe the
story, God either did or did not. If
such a being exists in the Broken
Empire, such beings exist.
And when you are a godbound,
you petition your God. And if your piety
is high enough, your God will help you
if you make the role. But here's the
thing. Your piety always changes. Every
time you ask your God for help, your
piety will decrease.
And you do not know what that number is.
It is hidden from you.
You can take steps to increase your
piety by, you know, being a priest,
by enacting the will of your God, by
holding mass, by hearing confession, by
rooting out enemies and heretics, by
consecrating holy ground, by
establishing a church, you know, preach.
That is how you get piety back. And the
more piety you get, the more likely your
God is not only going to listen to you,
but grant you the greater miracles.
Because you make a piety roll and the
SLS you get on that roll will determine
the quality of the miracle you get. You
get nine or more SLs, that's a greater
miracle, baby. Woo! We're talking part
the waters.
So,
this system mechanically enforces a
priest to act like a priest, not like a
second rate magic user. Well, I've got
my priestly spell list. No, you do not.
You ask your god for help now. The gods
have domains and they have very
particular things that they are in
charge of. So, you cannot ask the
goddess of healing to blast your enemies
with a fireball. She'll say, "Dude, not
my party. Not my party." But you can ask
her to do all kinds of things that are
within her purview.
The GM decides what the effect is. And
there are whole hosts of lists that give
examples of each of the domains so the
GM can have some idea of what might
happen.
>> Are you allowed to do both types of
magic via clerics that
>> Sure. if you want to spend the XP to
become so. And
again, you can develop your character in
whatever direction you want. So, here we
go. Fire domain, heat, light, fire,
crafting, strong emotion. These are the
things that it affects. The lesser
miracles, typically, it's a skill bonus
or an expertise bonus to a couple of
roles. The middle middle miracles could
be lots of things. The godbound does not
suffer the effects of cold or freezing
for one day. A jet of flame from an
existing fire shoots forth at a target
within close range doing 1d8 fire damage
opposed by dodge or whatever. But these
are just examples to give you a rough
sense of what the basic power level is.
Right. The greater miracle. The godbound
summons a wall of flame through 1d3
contiguous zones creating a zone
damaging hazard intensity five. Oh my
god. Literally. Oh my god.
So
whole bunch of examples. Are these spell
lists? M
yeah, basically. But they're not.
They're godly powers. Sh. They're godly
powers. But
yes, it's it's up to the GM to figure
this out. A lot of people hate that. A
lot of GMs are like, I don't want to
have to figure out what happens every
time my priest casts a spell.
Understand, your priest isn't going to
be casting a spell. Your priest is going
to be asking for holy and divine
intercession. And they can only do that
so much because every time they ask,
their py goes down. And yes, you do have
to track that. You're a GM. You have to
track things.
So priests are the best because they're
helpless.
They they must do the will of their god
or they will be cast out eventually. If
your py gets down to a point, you will
be cast out. And I think I'm about to be
cast out. So that's as far as we get,
guys. But that is a lot more than anyone
has ever seen before in this game.
Thank you.
[Applause]
>> Yes,
>> you've GM this and your people have DM
this. Yes.
>> You have a way keep track of it. Seeing
some of that would be awesome.
>> Yes. So, I have a lot of that stuff in
the book. Like, for example, initiative.
I have a a chart that is an example of
specifically how I track initiative. And
>> yeah, and also we have the GM screen.
The GM screen is going to have all that
stuff on there as well. So, believe me,
I'm doing as much as I can to make this
as accessible for gyms as possible. But
make no mistake, this is not designed
for beginner players. And I
unapologetically say that in the
beginning of the book, if you're a brand
new player, you might not immediately
grasp this stuff. But hey, I started
back when I was like 10 with roll
master. And if I could figure roll
master out of 10, this is nothing.
>> Thank you very much, everyone. Second.
