[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Hello and welcome back once again to the
sages library. I'm as always your humble
sage, Trevor Deval. Thank you so much
for joining me here today in the
library. Today we have a very, very
special episode. Every episode's a
special episode. I say that all the
time. Every episode's a special episode,
but this one is particularly special.
Why? Because recently the channel, me,
myself, and I, just crossed 40,000
subscribers. And so, in honor of that
hallmark, I want to do a little
discussion about a game uh that uh has
that number featuring prominently. That
game is Warhammer 40,000 and
specifically Rogue Trader. Here it is.
Yes, Rogue Trader. Now, there is a lot
to say about Warhammer 40,000.
I could go on for days about Warhammer
40,000, specifically about the setting,
but I'm not because, well, it would take
days. And also, there's a bazillion
videos out there that go into great
detail as to the setting of uh the
Warhammer 40,000. But I will tell you
this uh obviously the Sage Library is
about my experiences playing these
games. And so everything is going to be
uh uh through that lens. And I will say
that the Warhammer 40,000 setting is so
big and gargantuan that it is very
intimidating when you first come to it
if you know nothing about it. It's huge,
especially if you want to GM the game
because GMing a role playing game set in
the Warhammer 40,000 universe is a
daunting task. There is endless amounts
of terminology and factions and and tech
and weapons and all kinds of stuff that
you feel like you need to know in order
to run a game. But that is not actually
true. Um I have found that when you run
Warhammer 40,000, the best way to start,
especially if you have players that are
also not as familiar with the the lore
and the world, is to start very small.
Start on one world or one ship or
something like that. So that brings us
to Rogue Trader. Now, this is uh I think
the second in the game lines by Fantasy
Flight Games. The first game was called
Dark Heresy, and it was specifically
about the Inquisition. You were members
of the uh uh Holy Inquisition tasked
with rooting out the Zeno, the heretic,
the demon. Uh you were also horribly
incompetent when you started and um it
was kind of a comedy of errors in many
cases. Rogue Trader is a slightly
different thing. Rogue Trader, you are
not playing members of the Inquisition.
You are in fact playing the crew or the
members of a of a a a dynasty, a rogue
trader dynasty, sort of a a enormous
royal house or not a royal house rather,
a a noble house who has been tasked with
their warrant of trade of going out into
the great void in the stars and and
furthering uh well the will of the god
emperor and the imperium of mankind. But
specifically, it's about the Rogue
Traders Dynasty trying to make a name
for themselves as kind of like space
pirates in a way or traders or military
men or, you know, extensions of the God
Emperor himself. I want to talk about
Rogue Trader specifically because that
is the game that I'm most intimately
familiar with. I have played hundreds of
hours of this game, so I know it rather
well. And uh in fact, my introduction to
Warhammer 40,000 was through Rogue
Trader, but not through this version of
Rogue Trader. No, in fact, it was
through this version of Rogue Trader.
Now, this is the original Rogue Trader
game. Now, this is from, oh, I don't
know, I want to say 1987 or something
like that. This game is not, in fact, a
role playing game. It is a is a
miniatures game. It's a battle game. Uh,
Warhammer Fantasy started with Warhammer
Fantasy Battles and then they released
Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay. So, when I
saw this come out, Warhammer 40,000
Rogue Trader, I thought, "Oh, this is
the sci-fi version of the Warhammer
Fantasy Role playing game." Uh, that was
not correct. Um, it's easy to assume
that Warhammer 40,000 actually takes
place in the far future of the Warhammer
Fantasy world. If your first exposure to
all things Warhammer was Warhammer
Fantasy, like mine, but as it turns out,
that's not actually canon. Although, in
my head, canon it is. My head cannon
Warhammer 40,000 is in fact 40,000 years
in the future of the Warhammer Fantasy
world. That's neither here nor there.
Warhammer 40,000 Rogue Traders that came
out back in the 80s was in fact a battle
game, a miniatures game, but it it it
cried out for role playing because the
setting was so rich. The the characters
were so rich. The everything was just so
wild. It was so cool. But it's very
intimidating if you're not a sci-fi guy,
which I wasn't. And also I didn't, you
know, the it's like a combination of
Dune and Judge Dread and there's some
cyberpunk in there and and Orwellian
dystopian nightmare. It's all of this
stuff and then you jam that in with a
bunch of gods, chaos gods from the uh
Warhammer fantasy world and you get
quite the hodgepodge, quite the jumble,
but it is a it is a gorgeous mess. Now,
Rogue Trader specifically, you, as I
said, are members of a dynasty whose job
it is is to go out into, in this book,
the Coronus Expanse, which is a wild
west, basically in terms of uh the the
Warhammer 40,000 universe. This is a a
sector of space that is uncharted,
largely uncharted. And so it presents
all sorts of opportunities for
exploration and profit because as a
rogue trader, your goal, and by mean by
your goal, I mean the goal of the player
characters who make up the the upper
echelons of the crew, including the lord
captain, their goal is to increase the
dynasty's profit factor. So what's
really cool in the game is it's kind of
like a giant sandbox in a way. You can
take your gargantuan cathedral ship that
houses 30,000, you know, crewmen and you
can take it anywhere you want to further
the will of the god emperor and to
increase your profit factor. And so the
the onus is really on you and the crew
to figure out how you want to do that.
There's a there's a set of rules in the
game called the endeavor rules. And what
that basically is is it allows the
players to figure out what they want to
do. So they they know something about
the Kronis expanse. they they've heard
rumors and legends and about all this
stuff. So they might say, you know what,
we want to find that lost world of such
and such and create a trade route with
it. So that's going to be our endeavor.
So over the course of the next few
sessions or years or whatever it is,
that's a thing we're going to do. And if
they succeed at that, then their dynasty
gains glory and profit and renown and
all of this wonderful stuff. There's all
kinds of endeavors. There's military
endeavors. There's like uh there's
there's the cold trade which is dealing
with heretical artifacts and alien
artifacts and things like this. Anything
you can imagine is possible. And because
you are a rogue trader crew and because
you have access to this profit factor,
it's really not a zero to her kind of
game. You do not start as like I'm a
level one rogue trader. Although
technically you do start as a level one
rogue trader, but the level one
characters in this game are obscenely
powerful in terms of their influence in
the world. And especially with that
profit factor, like buying a a laz
rifle, let's say, it's nothing. As a
rogue trader, you just have it. In fact,
you probably have a thousand of them in
the ship's locker. If you want to buy
10,000 laz rifles, now that's something
you worry about with profit factor. So
the scale of the game is much much
different from a lot of typical kind of
RPGs and it couldn't be more different
from the introductory 40k RPG of Dark
Heresy where you started as a complete
peon who was told to go and do what you
were going to do and and you know do
what you're told or the Inquisitor will
burn you at the steak kind of thing. So
it's a very very different experience.
Uh but I found it extremely compelling
because literally the universe is at
your feet. You can go anywhere as long
as your Geller fields protect you from
the warp, the twisted demon demonic
entities of the warp. It is a D100 game,
so it is very, very close to my heart
cuz I'm very used to D100 games. In
fact, my own game, uh, the Roken Empires
RPG, which is still available for
pre-order at the link below, uh, also
uses a version of the D100 system. So,
uh, in Rogue Trader, uh, you know,
you've got stats and skills. Your skills
are, uh, associated with stats. So
basically, if I have a skill like
athletics, let's say, it might be
associated with dexterity or agility, I
believe the the the stat is. And so any
skill that falls under agility, I'm
going to roll my agility or less. Now,
there's details in that. You could be
specifically trained in that skill,
which gives you a bonus. Or if it's an
advanced skill, you can't use it at all
unless you're first trained. All kinds
of stuff. The point is, you roll D100,
you get that stat or less, and you
basically succeed. There's a bunch of
modifiers in the game. It's very very
gun porn. It's very gear porn. So, it's
it's a lot of like, well, I've got this
special blaster with a scope on it, and
if I if I aim for two rounds, and if I'm
behind cover, and I'm going to add plus
10, but minus 20 for here, and then plus
five for that, and plus 10 for this,
it can become a little overwhelming at
first if you're not used to the game, if
you haven't internalized a lot of the
structures and rules of the game. But
eventually it it it makes uh sense. Now,
the combat system as well is uh typical
of the Fantasy Flight Warhammer 40k line
in that it's potentially brutal. Uh
there's all of these critical hit charts
which uh can be anything from like, you
know, stun you briefly to, you know,
blow your arm off. Now, luckily in the
40k universe, that's not necessarily a
death wound. You could get some sort of
like mechanical arm on there uh later
on. Uh, so you know, you have characters
that that that really evolve into the
technology and into the demon spawn
stuff. My own character who was the Lord
captain in our in our first uh campaign,
he was a total heretic. He wound up he
had this demon sword which could cut
portals through time and space and it
completely corrupted him. He had like
scales growing on his back. He was
wanted by the Inquisition. So good.
So much so much fun. One of the cool
things about the game too is that there
is ship to- ship combat. Now, shipto-
ship combat or naval combat, I guess you
could call it, in Rogue Trader is very
age of sale, right? You've got these
gargantuan
lumbering, I want to call them like ca
cathedrals in space that, as I said,
house up to 50,000, 100,000 souls,
depending on the size of the ship. And
they're bristling with these banks of
macro cannons and lance prow weapons.
And you can build your your dynasty's
ship to begin with. And so you can
decide what kind of shields they have or
what kind of Gellerfield it has or what
kind, you know, if it has some sort of
like uh battle bridge which gives you
bonuses in combat or things like this.
But essentially the the ship to- ship
combat tries to give everybody something
to do. That's something I really liked
about it. It wasn't just the Lord
captain and the pilot. A lot of games
can kind of devolve into that. But
because the characters on board are so
diverse, like you know, you you might
have a character who is a he's a member
of the ecclesior. He's he's a priest
basically. So he can go around in the
middle of a combat and he can inspire
the troops or he can do or he can you
know you know threaten them to do better
less they lose their very souls in the
upcoming battle. Or you've got as I said
the lord captain can actually you know
he's the one that uh that determines the
overall strategy of the battle. But the
pilot flies the ship. You've got people
who can operate or or help the crews
operate the the the guns the the banks
of of macro cannons. So everybody can
have something to do right. You have
people running around. They can do
repairs. They can improve morale. They
can do all of this kind of stuff. So,
it's not just a matter of the pilot
making rolls and everybody just
twiddling their thumbs hoping they don't
get blown up, right? So, that was that
was really cool. Now, there are a lot of
other expansion books that came out for
Rogue Trader. I have some of them. I
didn't have all of them. Ashley had my
GM had all of them.
They really expand the kind of game.
Like there's a bunch of adventure
modules which are cool, but they also
have like um there's beastiaries and
there's there's an entire book about uh
acquisition, right? So, you know, how
you use your profit factor because
again, you're not out to buy yourself
I'm going to buy myself a new suit of
armor. That's easy. No, instead you want
to buy that planet or you want to or you
know you want to buy this trade route or
you want to use your money to influence
some noble house back at the Kixusa
sector so that they gradually I don't
know fund your war effort or whatever
the case is. The point is it's a
gargantuan game. It's a huge game. Uh
but it is super super fun and I think it
is probably the most fun expression of
the Warhammer 40k RPGs. And I say that
just because it's really the one game
where you have total freedom to do
whatever you want with the possible
exception of Black Crusade. Black
Crusade is where you play the the Agents
of Chaos. So you're basically playing
like chaos space knights and you know
lunatics and but you know that's a whole
different kind of game. That's a that's
a completely different feel. But in
terms of your your standard kind of RPG
uh Rogue Trader you have the least
restrictions on you. Like you can you
can really go and do all kinds of cool
stuff. Uh, one of the other games is
called Only War, and that is where you
play members of the Imperial Guard. It's
very much a military game. Again, like
Dark Heresy, you are told what to do in
in most cases. You're told what to do.
You've got a mission, you go, you you
take your squad, you try and um take
care of it. Uh even uh Death Watch,
which is where you play Space Marines.
You're not just playing any space
marines. You're playing members of the
Death Watch who again are sent on
missions, very specific missions. Do
this thing, do that. Whereas in Rogue
Trader, you could be sent on missions by
various patrons or or peers uh peers of
the realm, but you don't have to. You
can do whatever you want. So, it's a
it's a fascinating game. And what we
found in the game is it is rife with the
potential to really mine stuff from
characters backtories because the way
you create characters in this game, it's
so cool. There's a whole life path
system, like an origin system. So, you
track your character from the very
beginning. what kind of world they were
born on, uh, how they grew up, where
they spent their time as a as a young
person, all the way up until, you know,
how they got to become a member of this
particular Rogue Trader crew. And that
just gives you so much meat, so much
meat to sink your teeth into in terms of
who is this person, how do they uh
interact with the rest of the crew? And
that kind of interpersonal uh
relationship stuff between the crew is
just fodder for a GM to be able to mind
adventure ideas. We had a ton of
intraarty conflict in our crew uh
because of that stuff. Not every GM's
going to want to to run it that way, but
I spent most of my time uh as Lord
Captain basically distrusting uh
everyone. My pilot, my senial, everyone.
In fact, the only one I didn't distrust
was uh my alien henchmen. And of course,
uh, that would have been heretical to
have this particular alien hedgeman
because the Imperium of Man is, uh, is
sort of famously humanocentric, shall we
say.
Anyway, so there's there's a ton of
stuff you can do in the game in terms
of, um, adventures, right? So, it's not
just the endeavors, it's not just these
naval battles. It's not just that kind
of stuff. It's also the stuff that
arises just from the creation of the
characters themselves. Now, the
characters of course do have sort of
classes and levels and you you get
better at things and you get experience
points and you buy new skills and new
talents. The game is rife with talents.
So, by the end of the campaign, your
character is probably bloated with all
kinds of talents and special gear and
things like that. But, uh that's that's
a common problem with any game. I mean,
anyone who's ever played Dn D 3.5 up to
about 10th level, you'll start to
realize that yeah, you know, it's
getting a bit much. So, that's that's
the same with virtually any game. So, I
don't I don't hold that against Rogue
Trader at all. Um, I do want to talk
about the art in this game and in the
FFG 40K line in general. To me, the art
sells this. If you don't know anything
about this setting, the best thing to do
is to take these books and just flip
through them and just get inspired
because the art is awe inspiring. It is
so cool. It's like a cross between Terry
Gilliam, Frank Herbert, and and George
Orwell. So there's all kinds of wild
stuff going on here. U the art is so
cool. And the first time I saw the art,
I was like, I've never seen anything
like this. So it's super inspiring, but
as I said, it can be intimidating. So I
again, I would say the idea if you're
going to start out, I would say start
small so that you can slowly sort of uh
branch into the world. A fantastic game,
Warhammer 40,000. And uh it is one of my
favorites. I just the amount of hours I
put into this game, it's so cool. The
art is just, it really is a thing of
beauty. All of these FFG books were just
works of art, and they're they're worthy
of just sitting on a coffee table to
have people flip through it, man,
because it's just, it's just wild stuff.
So, the game is is out of print as it is
now. I think you can still get the PDFs
on Drive-Through RPG. I'll put a link
for that below if you guys want to uh
pick up a copy through Drive-Thru
because that'll I'm an affiliate and
that'll that's a good way to to help the
channel. Anyway, Rogue Trader, Warhammer
40,000 here on the eve of my 40,000th
subscriber. Thank you, whoever you are.
Rogue Trader, as always, uh we'll have a
sacred space on these shelves here in
the Sages Library. Thank you so much for
joining me. And if you do want to help
support the channel, consider supporting
us on Patreon or the YouTube channels.
And don't forget the Broken Empires RPG.
My game is still on for pre-order as of
today. So, you can go to the Brokenmp
Empires RRPG.com if you missed out on
the Kickstarter. Thank you my friends
and I shall see you uh in the library uh
one day soon in the future.
[Music]
