Very well, I will arrange it. Do you
need a place to stay and rest? You seem
to be extremely
worn out and exhausted from your many,
many fatigue points you took on the
road.
Hello and welcome back once again to Me,
myself, and I. I am, as always, your
player, game master, and host, Trevor
Deval. Thank you so much for joining me
here today. It's been a while since we
have looked at Veil and Thra and their
adventures in the desert trying to stop
the Lich Matzaroth, but we are back and
we're going to continue on now.
Hopefully finish up very soon. Maybe
even today. Who can say? The dice will
always uh tell. I'm not going to tell
you all the changes that the system has
gone through because they have been many
and legion. But if you're interested in
how the game works, you can always uh
purchase it below at the link there. So,
when last we left off, Veil Anthrag had
gone to the burial spot of the Lich
Matzaroth and discovered a few kind of
fascinating things. Maybe they're lies,
maybe they're not. Who can say? She
doesn't know. But she has hope in her
heart that perhaps by taking the power
of the spirit mantle as she has done and
wrapping the lich's felactory in it and
transferring the power to the flactory
it will heal Mozaroth so that when she
reunites the felactory with the lich's
body which is currently in Anir or on
the way to the city of Anchir to the
spot where the great portal will be
opened at the conjunction of the SARS
thereby allowing Matzaroth access to
Norcarth the eternal city where he hopes
to find the secret to his own death
because what he told her was that he was
exhausted from all these thousands of
years of not life, not unlife, not
death. Whatever reason, he doesn't like
it. So, she is hoping that is he is in
fact telling the truth. Is he telling
the truth? I don't know. Um I suspect
not. And so does Vale. But in the
meantime, she is going to proceed as
though he is. Now, Archaos factor is
going to remain at 8. I don't actually
remember where it was from last time. Uh
it's been a long time since I ran a
session. So I'm just going to kind of
start freshish. I'm going to start with
the notes that I have currently. But uh
we're going to close the thread,
investigate the lich's dream because we
successfully did that. We're going to
have a new thread. Get the felactory to
aner before the great conjunction of the
stars. Okay, so they have a long way to
go and they're no longer mounted because
they lost a couple of their camels in
the scorpion attack in the desert. So
now they are on foot, but they've got a
long way to go and they've got to move
fast because remember, not only does
Veil have to get back to Aner before the
conjunction of the stars, but she has to
deal with the Lich before the portal
back to Angavar closes. That is where
she originally came from at the fortress
of the Order of the Purifying Flame. So
she is running out of time. So they have
got to move. So what this means is we're
going to go into our travel rules.
They're going to plan the route. Now,
they could go south along the river
again, but that's going to take too much
time. In fact, I think Veil says to
Watik, who is their guide, I need you to
chart the quickest route back to Anuria,
even if that takes us directly across
the desert sands. And in fact, that's
what it's going to be. It's going to be
basically a straight shot across the
desert. That's going to be tough.
They're going to be pushing it. They're
going to be doing force marches and it's
all rough terrain because it is the
sweeping dunes and sands of the red
waists. So that's what they're going to
do there. Their route is planned. They
can't make any travel or rolls because
they're in the middle of nowhere and
nothing really applies here. Now this
place does count as a safe area. So they
were able to rest and recover all of
their resolve and and knock off three
fatigue. So they are fresh now, which is
very important cuz they're not going to
be fresh by the time they get back to
Anaria. As they set off the next morning
through the receding waters of the
flooded Tomb Valley, they come up out of
the rocks and begin to make their way
back down towards the desert floor.
Watique is going to do his track. Well,
this is going to tell us how far they
can go before an event befalls them and
before they have to deal with a bunch of
other stuff. All right, Watique, let us
see as he guides us through the desert
wastess with their soul camel. Here he
goes, rolling on 80, which is a 23.
Well, okay, that's 2 SL. So, what this
means is they are going to go uh well,
not the B basically his score, which is
the 10 digit of his skill in uh hex's.
So, they're going to go eight hex's
across the desert, but they are pushing
it, which means they are going three
hex's per day. So, because we round up,
it's going to be 3 days by the time they
get to the area of the next event. There
is not much to see over the next 3 days.
sweeping Lords of Arabia type desert.
We're talking massive giant dunes that
stretch on for as far as the eye can see
until the the the golden uh red shimmer
of the sand meets the the blue blue sky
in the in the far horizon. There is
nothing but heat and wind and sand that
blows in their face and gets in every
crevice of their clothing. Nobody is
wounded, so we don't have to worry about
infection or anything like that. But now
the quartermaster is going to step up.
And our quartermaster I believe is Thrag
with his survival. He's pretty good at
this. 70 with an expertise of two, which
means that the floor is two, which means
he gets a minimum of two SLS if he
succeeds at all. Let's see how he does.
This will help us out on the fatigue
table roll if he succeeds, which he does
with 35. So that's going to be plus
three to that table. But it's minus two
because every hex was desert. So that's
rough terrain. But they did force march.
So total is going to be uh minus4 to
this roll because of the numbers
involved. So we take our d10 minus4.
This could get ugly. Oh yeah, that's
about as ugly as you can get. So if it's
one or less, what that means is
everybody takes four fatigue, but
luckily they have the camel. So how it
works is if they have food and water,
mostly water in this case, they can
actually reduce their rations diet by a
step to avoid taking one of those
fatigue. So that's what they're going to
do. But they take three fatigue from
that. Oh boy, that's pretty bad. The
heat of the sun beating down on them. In
fact, the only reason the only uh solos
and respit that they get from this whole
thing is the fact that they're able to
consume great portions of water, which
you know reduces the the fatigue
somewhat. But now it is time for the
event. Now events don't have to be bad
necessarily. It's going to depend on a
few things. The very first thing I'm
going to do is see if the scout sees
anything up ahead. And our scout is
Veil. She is also rolling on 70. No
expertise, so she's, you know, she's
pretty good at this. Uh, and she
unfortunately will fail. Uh, obviously
the the the blowing wind has blown sand
in her eyes and affected her perception.
They will get no bonus favor um for this
event. But let us see what the event is.
The first thing I want to do is
determine what the danger level is of
the hex that they're in. Uh there's many
ways to do this, but I'm just going to
determine it randomly, and it's going to
be perilous. So, there's a number of
ways to generate events in the Broken
Empires RPG. I'm going to jump down to
our specific event types by hex danger
table. The precarious event that Veil
did not see coming is going to be Oh,
this is pretty good. This is pretty good
actually. Scenic moment.
Type detail and possible effect. The
type 24. Celestial. Oh, that makes a lot
of sense. Ah, yeah. I I know what this
is before I even complete the roll. Uh,
but let's see if there's anything else
here. Sign of the past is the detail.
Yeah, that makes perfect sense. And the
possible effect of this offers a safe
place to rest. Okay, this is really
good. So, as they are making their way
through the desert, they would be
traveling by night. That's the smarter
thing to do. I think I established that
right in like episode one. They're
traveling through the desert. They're
they're traveling by night. So, as
they're about to hunker down for the
day, as they're setting their tents and
everything to ward off the heat of the
day, the moon stars are still in the
sky. But what they have noticed every
night leading up to this point is that
the stars in the sky are slowly
converging into one spot. This is a
celestial phenomenon known, of course,
as the great conjunction. So, the time
is drawing near. Now, as Veil is looking
up at those stars, can she derive some
sense of hope from this? We know that
she's on her way to Aner because she
believes that there's a chance she might
be able to save Cherylyn by being able
to extract the last shard of her living
soul from Matzaroth uh once he dies.
That that is her hope. I'm going to give
her a role on ancient lore. Now, she's
not particularly good at this, but she
does talk to Thrag about this. Thrag, do
you see the stars? They are aligning
even now. What Mozart said is correct.
The great conjunction is nearly upon us.
It is possible that he was not lying to
us. Thrag just kind of like folds his
arms. He's clearly skeptical and he
signs to her because of course he's a
mute. It is a fool who believes the
words of a lich veil. I do not believe
that you are a fool. What's more, my old
friend, I believe that you are allowing
your own emotions over your loss of
Sherillin to cloud your judgment. And I
believe that it could spell our doom.
I understand, Thrag. I will not walk
blindly into the clutches of that
villain.
If he is right,
then we might take some sorrows from
this, don't you think? So, I think she's
going to do an ancient lore roll with
his help. She's going to roll with a
slight bonus. Not very good. This is not
a great chance. Um, but oh, and they
actually she succeeded. Okay, great. So,
what I'm going to do is that knight
because she's able to sort of convince
Thrag that that maybe maybe there is
hope after all for the the entire
purpose of the order, which is to to get
rid of the scourge of undeath. Even
though Thrag doesn't 100% believe this,
he is moved by her dedication. And I
think that the both of them are able to
recover uh one fatigue from that. All
right, they will continue on. They are
in the middle of nowhere. There is no
possible way to get Travalor here. So
instead, Watik, the guide is going to
give us another roll. And he's It's not
great. It's not great, but it's okay. He
didn't fail, and that's what counts. So
they're able to go another eight hex's
before the event. Oh, they're so close.
They're basically just a few miles north
of the Jeweled River now. So, Watique
knows exactly where he's going. This is
good. But the question is, how tiring
was the journey? This is going to be on
Thrag now. His endurance roll as the
quartermaster. And he does pretty good
again. This is featureless red waste.
This is nothing but endless miles of
sand dunes. On our fatigue table, he's
rolling d10 minus 4 again. And okay,
that's a little better cuz they were
pushing it. They were force marching
this whole way. So, everyone takes two
fatigue again. I think they have to they
have to consume uh copious amounts of
their supplies in order to reduce that
to one fatigue, which they're going to
do. We are going to roll for Veil now to
see if she makes her perception. And
this time she does with five cells,
which is really good. Again, because we
don't know what this hex is, I'm just
going to randomly determine it. Oh, it's
neutral. Okay, so it it's it's a neutral
hex. I'm going to go back down to the
normal table here and see what the
nature of the event is. Oh well, this is
good for them again, I think.
Environmental boon. This is very good so
far. They're getting extraordinarily
lucky. The type
edible plants or fruits? They come
across probably edible cacti in the
desert, but to what end? The source. Oh,
intelligent influence or interference.
Somebody planted this. This is like
somebody's desert garden. Oh,
interesting. So, somebody's out here.
Could it be nomads, desert barbarians?
Could it be something else? I don't
know. But let's see what the potential
results of this are. Efficient travel.
Oh, this is that's exactly what I think
it is. I think it is a small desert
orchard with a tiny little oasis. And I
think it's like a way station. Yeah.
Yeah. For travel. So, it's a way station
that local desert nomads use. Everybody
can can do a nature-wise role. And if
they succeed overall, they don't have to
do very well. Well, they've only got to
get a number of SLS, we'll say three.
And if they succeed, then they'll be
able to uh harvest some of those those
fruits successfully cuz it's it's this
weird kind of desert fruit where if you
if you cut it at the wrong, you know,
angle or something like that, it
basically like uh emits some sort of
toxin cuz it's the desert. It's, you
know, it's like Australia. Everything's
trying to kill you.
Veil is going to do an HY. She's really
not good at this. Uh, no. She will
definitely not have any idea of how to
harvest this thing as they're looking at
this thrag. Is it 40? He will also not
be able to do it. Um, Watik will be able
to do it as well. I'm going to give him
a 50 on nature wise. Okay. Well, he is
able to actually harvest some of these
fruits, which again, I think what it's
going to do, it's going to provide them
a bonus on their next fatigue roll, but
they're able to harvest a couple that
they can sort of feast on, and that's
going to that's going to ease their
passage a little bit. They're pretty
much guaranteed to get into anir on this
next roll. Unless something goes
catastrophically wrong, but I can't
really see what that would be. As long
as Watik makes this roll, they're going
to get into anir. They'll still have to
do a fatigue roll. But let us see what's
going on here with Watique. Uh he is
able to do it. And so they're going to
be able to get in no problem. However,
we still do have to do the fatigue roll.
They were still pushing. It's going to
be another 2 days before they get to an
Sharer. Thra gets to do his and Okay.
Well, that's plus one. They're going to
have plus two on that. It's five, so
it's going to be minus two all in on the
fatigue roll. Oh my god. And of course,
it's exhausting.
Four fatigue all around. But again, they
just burn through their rations. This is
It was really bad. They're down to D6s
now. That means they only take three.
Oh, this is really bad. Three fatigue
each. They've taken six in total. But
there is no event when they get to the
city. That's an option the GM has. And
I'm going to exercise that option now.
So they get there three nights later cuz
they are traveling by night. So I'm
going to say that it's like the middle
of the night on their third day from
that last stop. Yeah, it's it's the
middle of the night. So when they come
to the gates of the city, the gates of
the city are probably shut. So they'll
have to wait until dawn in order to get
into the city unless they want to kind
of unless Veil wants to sort of steal
over the walls. I think she's going to
want to do that because she wants to get
in touch with General Bengara.
remember that she had sort of befriended
him and convinced him of the worthiness
of her cause. And he also now believes
that that this creature or something is
possessing the vazier and he wants his
city back. She basically says to Thrag
and Watik, "Stay here and wait until
dawn. I'm going to enter the city myself
and try and make contact with General
Bengara. Meet me at the inn." Whatever
inn they were staying at. It was like
the grinning scorpion or something. I
can't remember and I don't look it up,
but we'll assume that's what it was. All
right. So, she makes her way to a
secluded part of the city wall. Well,
this is going to be tough to get over,
but um going to going to ask a few
things about the fake charge. But before
we actually do that, they have
technically arrived now. So, let us end
that scene. So, we update there's no new
characters. Uh the new threads, well, we
did we did get to the city, but we
haven't got the felactory uh to the lich
yet. I am going to add the thread find
General Bengara and the chaos factor, I
think, is going to go down to seven
because they were surprisingly largely
in control in that whole scene, which is
uh amazing. All right. So, she is going
to try and find a way across the wall.
So, I'm going to go to our our fate
chart now and ask a question. What are
the odds that she's able to find uh a
relatively unguarded part of the wall
that is going to allow access? Uh, this
is a pretty well-defended city, mostly
because of the size and construction of
the walls rather than like a whole bunch
of guards everywhere. Now, remember
though, the one of the threads is is to
evade the Vazier's patrols. Technically
speaking, the vazier is still, as far as
she knows, the vazier's patrols are
still out looking for her. But now she
has reason to question that because if
in fact the vazier is in the control of
the Lynch Matzaroth, then perhaps
Matzaroth has called off the guards. But
that would mean trusting Matzaroth to
his word and she's not quite ready to do
that yet. So I think it is 50/50 that
she is able to find a relatively
undefended part of the wall that she
might be able to get up and over without
consequence. Here we go. This is Chaos
Factor 7. And the answer is yes, she is
able to do that, but it's not an extreme
yes. So, it's not an automatic success
or anything like that. She's able to
skirt the southern wall for quite a
while, several hundred yards, I think,
until finally she maybe she finds like a
uh there's there's a series of rocks and
like a broken down palm tree that she's
able to scurry up and give her a little
bit of uh height advantage to be able to
get onto that wall and, you know,
clamber over the the upper uh
credellations of the the top part of the
wall. This is going to be an athletics
role and it's the middle of the night
and there is no it is relatively
undefended so she doesn't have to do
stealth at this point. Let's just see if
she can actually get over it without
incident. Unfortunately, she is unable
to get over the wall here. So, here's
what's going to happen. I'm actually
going to invoke the um success with a
cost rule. Uh cuz it makes sense that
she would, you know, she's got all the
time in the world. Well, she has a lot
of time to deal with this. She is going
to get over the roll over the wall, but
I think that the cost is when she gets
over the wall. I said this was a
relatively undefended section of wall,
but it not is not entirely undefended.
So when she climbers over the wall, I
think coming down the walkway of the
upper walkway area of the wall is a city
guard. Now, I don't know if this is one
of the uh patrols of the vazier or just
a city guard, but she sees him and
immediately she has to do uh an opposed
stealth against his perception to see if
she is spotted by this guy. So, her
stealth is really good. 80 with an
expertise of three, which mean which
means that she has a minimum of three
SLS, which is good, which she's going to
well, actually, no, that's a critical
success. So, she succeeded with four
SLS, and he's rolling on 50, and he
fails. So, she is able to immediately uh
leap to a shadowy uh guard uh building
on top of the wall and hunker down
behind a bunch of like uh uh barrels
filled with pitch for them to be able to
dip their oil arrows into for flaming
arrows against invaders or something
like that. So, she's able to sort of
hide behind that as the the guard walks
by. I think at one point the guard kind
of, you know, he thought he saw
something in the shadows, but uh he he
pokes his head into the little guard
outpost sort of building on top of the
wall and looks around and uh nothing
here and goes back on his merry way. So,
she is able to clamber down the ladders
into the city itself and make her way to
the general's residence. Does she get
there without anything further accosting
her? I think that's very likely in fact.
Going to ask the fake chart. Uh 23 is uh
a regular success. So yes, after
probably takes about half an hour to uh
stealth her way through the the darkened
night streets of Anir until she arrives
at the general's meds. Now he obviously
is going to have guards, but those
guards are aware of her. She has been
here before and they know who she is. So
she goes up to the guards and reveals
herself to them. I'm here to see the
general leaders most urgent. You know
me, don't you? And the guard kind of
looks at her and recognizes her and yes,
of course, this way. And uh they lead
her into the mansion. Now he is asleep,
but the guards go up and they they rouse
him. And a few moments later, he comes
down sort of in his richly decorated
night gown basically. He he comes down
the large stone steps, I think, he to a
little uh courtyard outside of his um
main building structure, and I think
there's like a burbling fountain there
as well. It's very pleasant as the the
night birds are singing and the stars
are swirling in the sky above getting
even closer as that great conjunction is
is imminent. In fact, I think that the
great conjunction is going to happen
tomorrow night because we are here
racing towards the climax. So, Veil, you
have returned. Oh, thank the gods. Tell
me, what have you learned about the
Vizier and this creature that you have
been hunting? I have reason to believe
that the creature known as Mozaroth is
here in the city now. His servants have
brought him in from the outer deserts.
He intends to open a portal to a place
called Norc. It does not exist in our
world. But the entrance to that portal
is the entrance to the Vizier's palace.
That explains why the Vizier had strange
sigils
crafted and carved into the stone arches
over the main entrance way. It was some
sort of sorcery. As far as I can tell,
yes. Tomorrow night, the stars will
align in such a way as to cause what the
astronomers call a great conjunction. It
is at this time that Mozart wishes to be
reunited with his felactory, his uh
container of his soul stuff. I have it
with me. Ah, so this is how you will
destroy the creature. If you have the
felactory, then you could shatter it now
and and end the scourge once and for
all. I'm afraid it is not quite as easy
as that, General. There are other things
in play. Things that I will not waste
your time trying to explain.
I do not trust the creature entirely, of
course, but there may be a way for me to
benefit from his
actions tomorrow night. I need your
help. Of course. Of course. Although I
confess I am uneasy with you allowing
this creature to continue existing if
you even now have the means to destroy
it. She needs to actually convince him
that her plan has merit. General, I know
that this sounds mad.
But if I do not see this through to the
end with this creature, Mozeroth,
there might be even greater dangers
posed to you and your city. But if I am
allowed to enact my plan, we could not
only rid this world of the scourge of
Mozeroth, but we will most assuredly
break the vizier free of his domination.
I think that's probably a protocol role
in this case, which she's not great at,
but she is going to give it a shot. Oh,
and she succeeded with one SL, but she
did succeed. Well, I admit I am
uncomfortable with this, but you know
more about this situation than I do.
What can I do to help? I need you to
assemble your men. I do not think that
it will come to violence, but I need you
to be ready. Tomorrow night, the great
conjunction, the Lich will no doubt have
himself delivered to the gates. I intend
to be there as well. But I cannot
approach the gates openly, not while
Vizier's men are still looking for me.
And I do not know if they are still
looking for me, but I can't take the
chance that they are. I need you and
your men to be nearby waiting for a
signal just in case something goes
decidedly wrong. Of course. And what
would the signal be? You'll know it when
you see it. Is she going to do this?
Maybe.
Have your men standing by in the shadows
of the nearby alleys. And when it is
time to act, if there is a time to act,
you will know it. Very well. I will
arrange it. Do you need a place to stay
and rest? You seem to be extremely
worn out and exhausted from your many,
many fatigue boats you took on the road.
>> Yes. Uh, when the dawn comes, I will
have Thrag and Watik, your bearer, who
by the way was the difference between
life and death. Thank you so much for
him. I will have the two of them report
here to the mansion if that's all right.
Yes. Yes, of course. There is a guest
house uh near the the back entrance that
you can use to rest during the day and
make what preparations you need. So that
is in fact what they do when the dawn
comes. Uh she steals her way back to the
main gates. Thrag and Watik enter the
city. So they're able to get all the way
through the city the next morning back
to the general's uh sort of guest house
in the back and they're able to rest
through that day. Great. So that's the
end of that scene. There is no uh
updating character lists. We will uh get
rid of consult the general. I think
going into the next scene, I think that
the way this new scene starts is they
have rested and this is definitely a
safe place. And the good news is because
of that, they're able to uh rid
themselves of three fatigue. Thrag and
Veil are going to make their way before
sunset to the central square outside the
Vizier's palace where we have seen this
before. We've been here before. This is
where the silent death assassins
attacked her in the street all those
episodes ago. and she's going to wait
and see what transpires. So, I guess
what we have to ask now is well, first
of all, the chaos factor. Um, I'm going
to leave it at seven for now because I
don't really think the last scene counts
as a complete scene for the purposes of
chaos. So, I'm going to leave it at
seven because I'm playing fast and loose
with these mythic rules.
H but I am going to see if the the scene
is altered or interrupted as they make
their way the next evening having uh
refreshed themselves and sharpened their
blades and made what preparations they
needed to rolling against the chaos. And
of course there is an interrupt scene.
There is an interrupt scene on the way
presumably. What is that interrupt
scene?
36 NPC action. Okay. Who is the NPC?
Seven. It's going to be two.
Mozzaroth. The lich. Okay. What's the
lich going to do? This is an interrupt
scene.
This is NPC action. NPC takes action.
94. Travel. So far, that makes sense
based on what I have in mind. 09.
Building. Travel. Building. Okay. So,
all right. I got it. So her and Thrag
are stealing their way through the
streets. They are just about to get to
the outer square when they see it seems
that the lich and his cohort has arrived
before them. Travel building. Travel to
the building that he was going to. This
is in fact the interrupt scene. Let's uh
get some meaning tables descriptors to
get a little more information about this
interrupt scene. 82 description politely
and
old. Politely and old. Is this a
descript? Oh, okay. I want to I want to
envision what this is. So, they're
almost at the square when they look and
they can see in front of the great stone
arch of the entrance to the vazier's
palace, they can see that there's been
like this cart that's been drawn up,
there's this large wooden, it looks like
a coffin almost, but much bigger than a
coffin. Almost like a a crate you would
put a oh, say sarcophagus in. And it's
been it's been propped up in this cart.
And there's a number of desert nomads.
It looks like desert barbarians. Maybe
these are the servants of Matzaroth.
It's hard to see, but there's kind of
like I don't know, there's like 20 of
them. And they're sort of, you know, uh
they're they're kind of crawling around
the cart doing various things. One of
them is going up to the cart and he's
anointing the crate with some sort of
oils and another one is sort of like on
his knees like in sort of a worshipful
prayer, chanting strange words. It's all
quite strange. But here's the thing. The
vazier's guards are also there and these
vizier's guards are in fact waiting
politely
as though they do not want to interfere
with this situation whatsoever. So this
is not entirely
unexpected because she did kind of think
that she she did know that the the lich
was on his way but she doesn't see him.
She sees this crate. She has to assume
that this uh crate is in fact containing
Matzaroth. I think that in fact the lich
is here and I think that these servants
have brought the lich here on the
evening of the great conjunction just as
he said and I think they are going to
pry open that crate and reveal the
sarcophagus so that we could take the
next steps but you know what you never
know if that's going to be the case so
let's ask the fake chart shall we think
that this is likely in fact the
situation and it is 100 extreme
no that is not what they're going to do
whatsoever
So, this is not going to play out the
way that she thought or perhaps cuz that
is a 100. It's extreme. No, I think this
is not going to play out the way that
she hoped. That is very, very bad news
for her. Because what this means is
what she had hoped to happen is not
going to happen because of course we
rolled a 100. What she hoped to happen
is that this was going to play out the
way that the lich said. But it's not. It
is not going to play out that way. The
servants begin to pry open that crate,
revealing this golden and bluepainted
sarcophagus within this regal looking
thing. It's like it's clearly of ancient
ancient uh construction, but it is still
gleaming and golden as brightly as the
day it was crafted. So, it was almost
like this thing has has some sort of
protective barrier around it or
something that prevents it from aging
and uh decomposing over the course of
time. Much as its supposed inhabitant,
it's not what she hoped. So, what does
that mean to me? What does that mean to
me? I was going to ask the fate chart
all kinds of things about whether the
lich was telling the truth. if so, how
much of it was true, and all that good
stuff. But this role
tells me everything I need to know, or
at least it sets me off on a particular
track, which it's not good for veil. All
right, they see this happening and one
of the nomads who is participating in
this apparent ritual of some sort,
again, the guards doing nothing. Just in
fact, they're just standing there
staring straight ahead. They they're not
even showing any interest at all into
what's going on down here. So clearly
there's something going on where perhaps
they're under the control of somebody
who knows what. But this dude here uh is
is continuing to chant and his voice
rises until it reaches this crescendo of
almost like like like religious ecstasy
and fervor. And at that moment the
sarcophagus lid opens. It swings open,
revealing a figure inside. And that
figure looks to Vale's eyes immediately
as she sees this like some sort of
desiccated prince is what she sees. And
as she sees this, remember this is just
as the sun is setting now and the stars,
the great conjunction of the stars are
about to come out overhead. She sees
this and yes, she recognizes yes that is
the face. It is a mummified face, but
that is the face of a young, attractive
man who she saw in the lich's dream. And
now she knows beyond a shadow of a doubt
that this is in fact the body of
Matzaroth. And as the the sarcophagus
lid opens, the eyes flare up all solid,
sickly green, and the body begins to
stir. And as it does, it begins to take
on this grandeur. There's almost like
this glamour surrounding the body that
seems to spread out and emanate in waves
from the sarcophagus
affecting well per seemingly everybody
but certainly affecting Veil and Thrag.
And what they see now whether this is
real, whether this is an actual
transformation or whether this is some
sort of magical glamour, what they see
is this regal figure rise out of the
sarcophagus and stand towering over the
congregation. This figure has the
bearing of some ancient prince. There is
the earthly body, the not quite undead
body of Mat Sarath, the lich or the
quasi lich. At that moment, I think
because she has the spirit mantle with
her and she has the felactory with her,
I think it is extraordinarily likely,
near certain that Matzaroth is aware of
her presence. I'm going to roll it now.
94 and 95. It is still a yes, but
almost. She almost got away with not
being noticed, but he turns his his
princely and regal yet obviously
somewhat undead head towards her and the
eyes glow even brighter. And he extends
his hand and he says with a voice that
seems like it's it's part the the sound
of bones being ground into dust and and
ancient leaves being crushed into
powder. And yet it still carries this
this unearly authority with it.
>> You have arrived.
Come forward and reunite my body with
the felactory and I will open the portal
to Norcath and together you and I will
step through.
Come. Come.
Now we know because of that role that
something ain't right. But she is so
consumed with this hope. She is going to
get an insight. And in fact, as she is
about to step forward, Thrag puts his
arm out and looks at her and shakes his
head. So she is going to get the benefit
of his insight on this. You know what?
She's going to actually spend resolve.
She's not very good at this. She's going
to spend oh two points of resolve. So
she's going to get plus 20 to this. So
she thought this is on 60. Is she able
to do it on 60? She is with five SLS. So
she's able only because she exerted her
resolve on this and with the help of
Thrag who as I said looks at her and
shakes his head as if to say do not do
this. And she looks and she's about to
step forward. She looks at Thrag and she
looks down at him and she kind of steals
her face and gives him just the tiniest
nod as if to say that you know message
received. Not so fast, Mozart.
Before you take one more step towards
opening this portal, I need collateral.
To prove that you will not betray me
once you open this thing. Betray you?
Why would I do that? Sweet Veil?
I need you. And the power of Cherylyn
spirit bane, which I remind you still
lives within this body.
Help me free her veil. Give me the
felactory. She pulls out the spirit
mantle. The spirit mantle which is
drained.
She did transfer the power of Cherylyn's
spirit bane from the spirit mantle. The
thing she was going to use to put the
lich back to sleep or destroy him if she
could. She transferred that power into
this lamp.
But
did she hold something back? Does she
have some sort of ace up her sleeve?
She's pretty smart. She wouldn't be
trusting this guy entirely. She's got to
have something. I just don't know what
that is. So,
if in fact he is this villain that the
100 rule seems to indicate that he is,
is he going to do the classic thing now
of allowing his own ego and pride to get
in the way of his own plans? is in fact
Matzaroth in this very moment going to
succumb to the classic villainous
mistake by revealing his plans to his
intended prey. Oo, that's a good
question.
I don't know. I'm going to ask the chart
and I'm going to call it 50/50. We are
on K chaos factor 73.
Extreme.
Yes, extreme. Yes. As Veil stands there
holding the spirit mantle in one hand
and the felactory the lamp in the other.
Give me something, Mozeroth, to prove
that you are not the villain that I
think you are. He looks at her.
A look of disappointment coming over his
withered, desiccated face, and then he
begins to laugh.
Foolish girl,
you have stepped into your own doom and
you don't even know it yet. And at this
point, Thrag tenses. He completely
tenses. He knew it.
Did you really think that I would
entrust my felactory to you?
Oh, fail.
What you hold in your hand, that lamp,
is nothing more than a bobble. And now
you have wasted the power of the spirit
mantle and drained it of the last of
Cheryl's spirit Bane's essence.
You have squandered your last chance of
defeating me.
Now, Veil in this moment is not entirely
shocked. There is a part of her that was
blinded by her need, her desperation to
try and grasp at any flimsy straw of
hope that might bring Cherylyn back.
This is her her flaw. This has always
been her flaw. It fueled her through all
of season 3, and now it continues up to
this very moment to be the one thing
that clouded her judgment. And now the
spirit mantle is no longer the weapon
that she thought it was. It is drained
of her power. And as she looks at it,
she can see the shimmer is utterly
spent. And now she holds this useless
lamp in her hand. You lying monster.
Tell me then if you have any truth in
you. Was any part of your story true?
Any of it? Of course it was, my child.
The shard of Cheryl's spirit bane soul
does exist within me. What you saw in
the vision is true. The last existing
fragment of Cheryl spiritbane's soul is
lodged within me. It was the very thing
that she used to put me into a slumber.
She knew she could not destroy me in
this world. So the best she could do is
sacrifice a tiny part of her own soul to
keep me asleep. But now
her spirit is gone and the hold that she
had on me crumbles.
And now Mozeroth,
greatest lich in the history of the
broken empires, is awake. and he turns
and begins to chant the words that begin
to cause the the strange sigils etched
into the stone around the entrance to
glow with this sickly green radiance.
And at this moment, Veil and Thra are
about to leap towards him as they go to
grab their weapons. But I think it is
extremely likely that he is prepared for
this. Is there some sort of magic that
immobilizes them that that that roots
them in place? I'm going to ask the fate
chart. Yes, I think it is likely. And we
roll with an 85. And we roll. Yes, the
39 is a yes. As they're about to move,
he doesn't even turn. He just flicks his
hand back like this and then just just
ever so slightly squeezes his fingers
together. And the two of them are rooted
to the spot. Unless they can make a
resistance roll against this. Ooh, this
is going to be tough. So, how is this
going to work is I'm going to roll his
skill. He is unbelievably skilled. He's
unbelievably skilled. He's going to be
rolling on a skill of essentially 100.
He can't fail unless he rolls 99 or 100.
And he has an expertise of four, which
means he rolls at least four cells. This
is going to be ugly, no doubt. 48 is the
roll they must use to resist against.
This is going to be a willpower roll.
Veil is quite good at this. She's
rolling on 70. 71. SHE FAILS. SHE FAILS.
What about Thrag? What about Thrag? What
about Thrag? He did only 35. And it's
46. They both fail as they're about to
filled with rage. SHE'S STILL GOT SHE'S
got still got the spirit mantle and this
lamp in her hand. She's about to to drop
one of them and and pull a weapon. Thrag
definitely, you know, grabs his ax, but
as they're about to move forward, as I
said, he puts his hand up, his
desiccated withered claw of a hand and
just does this. And they're stopped.
They're rooted in place. They cannot
move from where they are. Now bear
witness to the opening of the portal to
Norcarth, where I will claim what is
rightfully mine, my licham.
But worry not, dear girl, because you
will be coming with me. At this moment,
these servants all kind of turn around
and some of the guards begin to slowly
zombie like move towards her. After all,
who better to replace my bodyguard than
the one who slew him? You will become my
new death knight."
And he turns and again begins to chant
as these two are struggling, STRUGGLING
AGAINST THEIR IMMOBILIZATION AS THESE
GUARDS begin to move forward. Will they
be able to break free of their bonds
before they're dragged before the lich
as the portal begins to open? We'll have
to find out next time on the next
episode of Me, Myself, and I. Thank you
so much for joining me and if you do
enjoy what I do, please considering
hitting like and subscribe and even
supporting us on Patreon or on the
YouTube channel memberships. All the
good stuff is below. Thank you and we
will see you next time for what I
presume will be the finale of season 4
Legacy.
Heat. Heat.
