[Music]
Welcome everybody to season two of Play
to Find Out, the actual play podcast
where we play notorious old
TTRPGs from
history. I am Quins and together with my
cheery test subjects Emily and Rob. In
this season, we are wiping the dust from
the 40year-old game Toon. Ton's cool for
a few reasons. To start with, it's an
RPG where you play cartoon characters.
Second, it was made by story designers
Greg Costikian and Warren Spectre early
in their careers because of a discussion
they were part of where some folks
agreed that an RPG about cartoons could
not be made. And third, it's actually a
player versus player RPG. And fourth,
it's an RPG where the golden rule is to
act before you think. Let's get into
this recording. But I should just
mention first that this is going to be a
shorter season than Skyrems of Joe Run.
It's more like us just getting our
breath back. And before you know it,
we'll be back for a big old PTFO season
3 with a game that, if you can believe
it, is even more ambitious and even more
unhinged than Joe Rune. Let's begin.
[Music]
Hello Rob. Hi. Hello Emily. Hi Quins.
Today we are going to be playing Toon. A
game from
1984. Say it with me. Tune. Ton. Nice.
How you guys feeling? Like so hyped.
Cartoonish. Cartoonish. Cartoonishly
hyped. I'm like got those um I don't
What do tunes have when they're excited?
Like my eyes are stars. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Eyes falling out in a slightly
way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like ding ding
ding ding. Like, let's go. I wondered
what was wrong with your eyes, but now
that makes sense. Yeah. You know, I'm
just really in character. Before we get
started, I would like to tell the people
at home a little something about you,
too, Rob. Oh, hi. Your day job is that
you're a writer and the dramatage for
video games and augmented reality shows.
Is that Have I got that roughly right?
That's right. Yeah. Yeah. I wasn't
expecting the interview. Okay. Yes,
that's that's correct. I'm like, "Quick,
prepare." No, that that's all I'm
fishing for. Emily, hello. Uh, this is
interesting. When you're not on Play to
Find out, you work as an actual
archaeologist with a specialty in animal
bones. So, you have literal skeletons in
your closet sometimes. I actually do.
They're not nonhuman skeletons. They're
all skeletons. But, you know, you could
work your way up. You got to believe in
yourself. It's adjacent. What I like to
think though is that because what we're
doing today is kind of archaeology, you
bring a sort of air of legitimacy to
play to find out. So legitimate. Rob,
would you say you're bringing anything
to this endeavor? Definitely not
legitimacy. Okay. Well, I I would like
for you to think about that and think
about next time we play what you might
want to to bring, frankly.
[Music]
Uh so today we're going to be playing
Tune uh 1984. This game was originally
created as a joke. I'm going to read not
as a joke, a dare. That might be the
word. Mhm. I'm going to read now from
Stu Hovath's book, Monsters, Aliens, and
Holes in the Ground: A Guide to Tabletop
Role Playing Games: Dn D to Mothership.
Tune was born out of a conversation
among designers at a convention about
genres that would be difficult to adapt
into RPGs. Jeff D, designer of Villains
and Vigilantes, submitted cartoons,
specifically the reality bending ones
produced by Warner Brothers, for debate.
Whether Zay and Cartoons can make for a
good RPG is a reasonable question. RPGs
are built with rules, while Looney Tunes
are entertaining because they break all
the rules. Bugs Bunny looks out the
screen at the viewer. Gravity stops
working, death is impossible, angry
lions can be pulled out of a bag, and
the animator can change the details of
the world with the swish of a brush. All
the designers at the table agreed. An
RPG based on cartoons was impossible.
This judgment stuck in game designer
Greg Costikian's craw, apparently. And a
few years later, he designed Toon
seemingly to see if it could be done.
Now, Ton, let me slam my book. It's not
Quinn's Quest with a nice book slam. Um,
yeah. So, he wrote this game originally
as an article. And then one game
designer, Warren Spectre, contacted Greg
and said he wanted to turn it into a
whole book. Warren Spectre, if you're a
video game dweeb, you may know um as the
a guy who worked on System Shock and
Thief and then led development on the
original DSX. So, the guy who helped
pioneer the immersive sim. If you don't
know what that is, congratulations.
You've lived it. Yeah. Sorry, I've
checked out a bit. Yeah. No, great. That
now my eyes are full of stars, though.
Okay, great.
So, that's what we're going to be
playing today. This is also,
interestingly, the first ever tabletop
role playing game focused on comedy
exclusively. Help.
Uh, but theoretically, Emily, even
someone who's as as demonstrably unfunny
as you, it's this is a perfect test to
see if a game can make even you funny.
Yeah. Well, we shall see. We shall see.
Let's play to find out. Let's play to
find out, baby. Um, I'm going to I'm
just before I kick us off, um, I'm going
to just Oh, there's so much paperwork on
this podcast. There is one rule that you
two you've got your car sheets in front
of you. a single little sheet of A4.
Talking about paperwork, like they're
fairly light. Yeah, they're pretty
light. Love it. There's probably like if
someone hadn't played TTRPGs before,
it's probably still an unbelievable
amount of words considering we're about
to play a cartoon.
Um,
don't know. But, uh, yeah, there is one
rule that you I'm going to be
encouraging you two to do as my players
today. That rule in tune is act before
you think. If I see you thinking at any
point, then I'm gonna call you out on
it. I'm going to do my best. So, just
don't don't think don't think. Just
respond like as an animal or a child
would to um to all of the uh the scenes
I'm going to be putting in front of you.
We're going to start with some little
introductory scenes for your characters,
but then we're going to go into the
first fe what's called a feature film
for tune. The first pre-written
adventure is good because it it takes
the pressure off me as a GM. And if it's
bad, that's because we're doing a
historical project as opposed to
something that I've been creative about.
Archaeology. Archaeology, baby. Emily,
you can confirm. Archaeology is
sometimes boring and bad, right? Oh,
yeah.
Okay, great. Rob. Hi. Are you ready to
begin? Yes.
I would like you to both imagine a
helicopter shot pushing down through
clouds towards the town of any town. And
I would like to push deeper into a
colorful bushy part of any town, the Any
Zoo, where your character is gainfully
employed working as a hippopotamus.
It's my calling. Rob, as we push closer
towards the hippopotamus enclosure,
would you like to describe your
character for us? Okay, so I think at
first glance, so I think my character is
very professional when he's at his day
job. You know, he's there for the kids,
right? M but I think we probably see him
give a bit of a wink to the camera at
one point. Maybe after a few, you know,
gawking delighted school children have
been a little bit mystified by the fact
that the hippo seems to have just
vanished for a second. Like he just
walks behind one reed and reappears
behind another. And I cannot stress
enough how big my character is. And I
think I I think there's a definite wink
to the camera. And I think my character
probably shares a bit of a wink with one
or two kids who might have noticed that
he he as he sort of goes under the
water, then suddenly he might reappear
from somewhere entirely unexpected. Like
he's be able to flit through the shadows
with an agility that you wouldn't expect
from uh uh a hippopot. This is great. I
think um some of the concerned parents
are ushering their children away from
the creepy winking hippo. You've
described so many winks. This hippo will
not stop winking and the parents are
starting to get unnerved. Yeah. Well,
exactly. Sometimes he's winking at the
kids. Sometimes he's winking at at
somebody.
Now, our unseen camera follows him.
As you are busy winking, feeling great
that uh you really you just have to
lounge around all day and that's that's
a paycheck and you got medical and
dental as well from the zoo. Um you
notice something. You notice a parent
pushing a pram with a baby in the pram
and the baby is very contentedly sucking
on just the most delicious looking
lollipop you have ever seen. It is like
you know those like ones that are like 9
in in diameter. Yeah. Yeah. Like a
spiral.
It is It is wet. It is covered in
saliva, but it catches the light. Does
it look valuable?
Kind of. You've Let's say you've never
seen a lollipop this desirable. Okay.
Well, then, oh, what's your character's
name? Well, I think at that point, the
minute something that even looks like it
glitters, hoves into view, a bit of a
transformation happens because you see,
my character is actually secretly when
uh when Nightfalls, he he takes on his
persona of Nicopotamus. Wow. And
Nicopotamus is one of the finest steep
thiefs in the world. And he he's just he
just loves stealing stuff. Stealing
stuff. The thieves has definitely
written the way you pronounced it, which
is t h i e fs. Oh, he's a thief. There's
no question about it. Great. But he just
he sees something valuable and he just
thinks I like that. It's just got to go
in his bag. Great. So like So he's in,
you know, he's in character as as a
hippo. Fully nude. Oh, yes. I think you
can see your like black and white
burglar uniform. Oh, it's neatly tucked
away behind the tree. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
That's part of it, you know. Great. got
to cover your tracks. Um, the mom and
the dad are who are sort of like
distractedly pushing their baby. The
baby is looking straight at you and
takes a
long lick of the lollipop while
maintaining eye contact as if daring
you. Oh, yes. These parents have no idea
what they've got their heads on here.
But the baby knows. I can see a fellow
connoisseur of of valuables. So, I don't
know. Obviously, Nicapotus has to start
formulating a plan because he's just
compelled when he sees something
valuable. Well, he's just got to have
it. What do you do? So, I think
Nicopotamus is probably going to cut
straight into his eyes going like
spiralally and colorfully like they're
reflecting the lollipop itself. And then
a decisive motion, he'll just submerge
under the mud,
vanish, and he's going to reappear like
inside his cave having already quick
changed into his outfit. I believe there
is a skill in tune for quick change.
There is. Yes. One of my specialties. I
would like you to roll the first roll of
the cafe. Here we go. Roll it. So, my
quick change disguise is nine points.
Oh, great. So, everything in tune is a
2d6. Roll equal or under. Uh, so equal
or under to nine. Piece of cake. Six.
Change. Okay. So, he he's going to I
mean, I think the camera probably sees
that he's then almost instantaneously in
his regular outfit, which is like black
shoes, black trousers with a big hippo
butt hanging out of the back. He's got
like a stripey black and white burglar
jumper and like a domino mask stretched
across his face and he's going to start
sneaking. And to be clear, he is vast
and round. And when he sneaks on his
giant round tree trunk legs, he always
has a huge smile on his face with his
mouth open and his tongue hanging out.
And he keeps winking at the camera.
I wasn't ready for how much winking is
going to be part of. I know. Okay. Um he
wants you to be in on it. You know
that's going to be a sneak roll which uh
should we describe our stat the stat
block of a two. Okay. So we were we got
introduced to the four key attributes,
right? Yeah. So in D and D you're going
to have strength, dexterity,
constitution, wisdom, intelligence,
charisma. In tune you have what? Well,
and I love these attributes. So you have
muscle, zip. Okay. Smarts and hutspar.
Now zip that's that's speed. smarts is
just smart and hood is how like the
manual describes it as how pushy you
are. And I really like that phrase from
the book, but I think daring is a word
that everybody looking down seeing
what's one. Yeah, my character does not
have a lot of huts. Yeah, we'll be
finding we'll be finding out about your
character in a little bit. To be clear,
my character has zip of one cuz he's a
hippo. Great. So, you're going to be
rolling Sneak. Sneak is stealth
movement. Yeah, sneak is under Hutzah
amazingly because it's about how daring
you are and I'm really really good at
hoods. So, I've got a base attribute of
six and then I've added two points to
bring it up to eight for sneak. So, if
if we got any super dweebs in the
audience, your stats like you have hoods
six means all of your skills under hoods
start at six and then you can spend
skill points to increase them. That's a
three. That's a three. So, easily pass
flying. A sneaky bastard. How did you
hear this? This is far from the first
time that Nicopotamus has snuck out of
his hippo enclosure at the zoo. Oh no,
this is like a nightly occurrence. I
know. Like like there are a bunch of
kids like looking and frowning at the
enclosure and parents pointing at now an
empty enclosure wondering surely they
just can't see the hippo. But yeah,
there was a crowd still looking at the
enclosure expecting you are just under
the mothers. Listen, that happens at the
zoo all the
time. Nothing could be more natural.
These animals aren't performers. Plus, I
have a night job mate and it's a part to
be about it. So, Nicopotamus is going to
uh he's going to spirit himself out out
of the uh the enclosure. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. He's going to, I think, probably
dive like, you know, point his point his
hands in a diving position and dive
merily into a hole in the ground and
then he's going to pop straight up from
a manhole that's out on the path, you
know, when people walk around. Do you
want a snake fully like behind the pram?
like contorting your body behind the the
I mean I think he's got some some
sneaking ahead of him and he's it's
nothing he enjoys more than sneaking. So
he's going to blend in with the crowd
and uh he'll sneak up behind the pram
gradually with a big grin on his face
cuz the baby is looking entirely in the
wrong direction. Nothing could be easier
than reaching in and taking it. And I
think something I really want to stress
is he's not intended to be sinister, but
he is going to appear behind this pram
while the parents are probably, you
know, wandering off having a romantic
kissy kissy conversation or something.
He'll wink at them for sure. He's going
to he's just going to pop up from behind
the pram and pop up from the other side
behind the pram and like peer over the
pram broad shoulders. The baby's fully
looking in the other direction. Yeah.
Yeah. And it's like a frilly
paramulator, right? Yeah. And I think
Nicopotamus is just going to stare at
this lollipop with these colorful
spirals turning in his eyes and then
he's just just going to reach out and
he's just got to have it. Nick, please
give me a slight of hand check. Except,
oh,
I actually think that just as his hand
reaches for the lollipop, he's going to
pause millimeters away and he's just
going to look down and he's going to
realize that although Nicobotamus is
always all all about stealing stuff,
there's a lie. And the man is is nothing
if not a gentleman thief. And there's
such a thing as not taking candy from a
baby. That's fine. I love that. As you
go to retract your giant hippopotamus
hoof from the candy, there's just one
problem, which is the very sticky
lollipop is now stuck to your hand.
Okay. The baby is also gripping onto the
lollipop. So, as you lift the lollipop
out, the baby is fully hoisted out with
your hand. When I'm glued to a lollipop,
the baby is not letting go of the
lollipop in any parents can turn around
at any moment. Abduction is another line
I draw. No, no, no, no. Interesting.
That's a business I don't want to get
into. So, I think
Damn it. Okay. So, I think uh his first
instinct is uh to cringe and he sticks
his other gigantic hippo pore in his
huge mouth and starts chew chewing on
his toenails. Great. Well, the
fingernails or
whatever. Fingernails fly everywhere.
Terrible flop sweat of fear. And then I
think he just starts shaking his
hand doing like you know doing the
electric slide with this baby basically.
What skill do you think this is? Oh god.
It's definitely not dodge disarm trap.
The baby has trapped you. That's pretty
good. Yeah. Give me a disarm trap roll.
Oh, okay. So I have both set and well
it's a single stat for set and disarm
trap. He actually got eight because like
you know in inspired by his hero the wet
bandits they uh he's uh he's pretty good
at setting and detecting. Sounds creepy.
It's from Alone. Oh right. Also they are
genuinely trying to kill that kid. So
he's probably not they're probably not
his heroes in fact.
Seven. Seven. Okay. Great. So that is
fine. You have disarmed the trap. You
have the fling the baby. You have the
baby. Yeah. No, I was exactly on the
same page. Were you trying to let go of
the lollipop? Yeah. You're trying to get
the lollipop. No, no, I'm not letting go
of the lollipop. I'm trying to get the
kid off the lollipop. Oh, okay. Check
check check. The kid goes flying up uh
over the g over the wall into the lion
enclosure. Right. So, look at the
parents are still kissing. Object
unbelievable terror on Pilopotamus's
face. His hands go to his head. He
realizes you have now stuck the lollipop
to the your head. So, now one of his
hands is stuck to his head with the
lollipop. Try and yank it that for a
minute. But then I hear a a roar. A
delected a delectation kind of roar like
a hungry kind of roar from the line
enclosure. Terrible fear flop sweat and
he sprints towards the line enclosure.
Okay, great. You sprint straight towards
the sprint straight toward There is a
glass partition. I think I would like
you to roll. Oh, he just slams straight
into it. I think this is a notice.
There's a smarts roll for Hang on. Oh,
no. This is great. Yeah, there's a skill
for um where is it? It's like Yeah. So,
there's a skill for see here or smell.
Let's see if you detect the glass
partition. I mean, I will say that
Nicopotamus is selectively smart and
while being a a pretty dunheaded
goofball dumbass over here. So, uh, if
it's my base smarts, then it's six,
which isn't bad, but he's not great at
those things. Give me the roll. Seven.
Fail. So, you are going sprinting. I
love this. Sprinting straight towards
the glass partition. Pancake yourself.
Become fractionally more
two-dimensional. That's going to be our
first 1d6 damage. Okay, we have not
rolled your hit points yet because in
the 80s people thought it was a good
idea for hit points to just be a roll.
So, let's see how much of a protagonist
or v we talked about this before the
record. I think if either of you two
roll really high hit points in this game
of cartoonish damage that kind of makes
you the villain, right? That's fair. So,
let's roll. So, please your hit points
is 1d6 plus 6. 1d6 plus. Okay. Wow. So,
yeah.
Five. So, a whopping 11 hit points.
Jesus. And then you take 1d6 damage. Oh,
take 1d6 damage from slamming into this
glass frontage. I take one. Oh my god.
Uh, great. Don't look so pleased with
yourself, Rob. Um, okay, great. So,
splat, you're in the tud enclosure. The
lion, which you know, Moonlight is an
accountant. You seem to be creeping out
in that is just licking his lips,
creeping towards the baby. The baby is
like head is fully in the sand like an
ostrich due to being thrown at
tremendous velocity. Mhm. Baby can't see
the danger it's in because it is just
trying to remove its head from the sand.
You have seconds. What do you do? Uh,
okay.
Blink and then notice the lion in
terror. And I'm going to have to sneak
inside the enclosure somehow. So, I
think I'll probably try to disguise
myself
interesting. Okay. As a zookeeper. Yes.
Okay. Yeah. So, I can march into the
enclosure with my broom and hopefully
lever the baby out the sand. Give me a
quick James roll. Okay.
Uh, okay. Quick change. Trying to roll
under my nine. Quick change disguise.
Yeah, that's a six. Quick change into a
zookeeper. Walk straight towards the
back door. A zookeeper who was just
leaving the line enclosure tips his hat
at you. All right, Jerry.
Uh, he said, "All right." And then
frowns cuz he doesn't know who you are.
And I'm pass. And I'm into the
enclosure. Great.
Yeah. So, I'm wearing like one of those
sort of weird round flat hats and like,
you know, overalls and a big mustache.
And I'm still a hippopotamus. I can't
stress that enough. And I've squeezed
into this uniform that I found. And I'm
going to push this broom
along, inconspicuous as you like, and
then dash up to the baby. And using the
broom like the end of like the the curly
end of a hammer, I'm going to try and
leave it this baby. How are you? Okay, I
think you leave the Okay, give me a lift
heavy objects roll. Crap. Uh, your lift
heavy object should be pretty good. I've
got pickup heavy thing at seven. Even
though my muscle is one, like
Nicopotamus is not an inherently strong
character in the sense that he doesn't
like using his strength. Great. But
sometimes he's a hippo. Literally
wouldn't take Andy from a baby though.
And look at what the trouble it's got
him into. Pick up heavy thing. Six.
Okay, that's a pass. You like you push
push push and then as the sort of like
what's that what's the word for when
something bends that like but then and
then like how pole vaultters get
it bends. Canterie. I also think can I
want to say the word torsion? Say
torsion. That can't be right. It I just
don't as it torches as it is. No, don't
try and make me sound like an idiot on
the internet. Is it talk?
Maybe turns basically. Okay. You push
down. You push down. You push down the
the room you're using bends. Bends.
Bends. And then finally when it snaps,
um yeah, it launches the baby in a bunch
of sand. Back into the pram.
Congratulations. The lion now goes to
the lion which is direct I think like
the flop sweat off my domino mask as you
sort of like you are staring forwards
which means you don't realize the lion
is now 2 in behind your head. We see it
just raise over your shoulder. Um uh you
become aware as the
lion or all right Gary. Uh uh he goes
all right Nick.
How's your day going? Well, I was going
to save that baby, but you did it for
me.
[Music]
Nicopotamus, it is later that day that
you are just relaxing, hands behind your
head um on a on a deck chair shaped lump
of mud. Yeah, one of my hands is still
stuck to my head with the lollipop. Oh,
yeah. While your hands still stuck.
Occasionally you frustrated. Give it a
little tug. Try and lick it. You know,
let's like try to lick your own ear. Um,
when as your mouth is open and you're
trying to lick your own
ear, a flyer lands right on your tongue.
Um, you pull it off and you see that it
is a flyer for the home of tomorrow. um
in a sort of world in the any town
world's fair and the art shows a house
full of gleaming technology that
definitely looks like it could be nicked
and also a beautiful looking Ming vase
in one of the rooms.
It's just on the other side of town.
Would it fit in in my bag? It would fit
in your bag. Oh, I've just I've got to
have it. Great. Uh and with that, we
will jump over to another part of town.
Emily, I'll say before we start, there
is I think real room in terms of you
like first off, don't worry about it
being funny, but just trying to take
this world seriously as your character,
I think it means we're off to the races
and just being frustrated when it does
not go your way. Great.
Our camera is going to zoom out now and
we are going to see the town again and
then we're going to zoom in on a busy
high street and we're going to zoom down
an alleyway and down some stairs. Um,
and we see a sign to Harvey's Bar. Um,
and then the camera is going to slide
down, down, down, down, down the door,
down the door, down the door, down the
door, down the door, down the door to
the bottom 9 in of the door, and we see
your tiny character, uh, Emily. Would
you like to describe your character for
us? I would love to. My character is
leaning against the door with his little
tiny arms crossed, and he is a little
tiny frog wearing a cute little
detective outfit. We love to see it.
Yes, we love to see it. Okay. Um, you
are leaning on the door. You've just
gone down the stairs. You're breathing
heavily because those stairs are
actually exhausting. There's like 14 of
them. You are here for a whiskey. It's
been a long day for uh what's your
character's name? His name is Robert
Hopper. We love it. Private
investigator. Private private
investigator. Great. You've been a long
day investigating things privately. Um,
and now you're here for a whiskey. This
door is going to be a problem though. It
is a fullsize door. Uh, what do you do?
Uh, I think Robert takes one good look
at it. You said you said you think there
no think sorry. Robert spits straight
under the gap underneath the door.
Great. Um, that sounds like a uh a you
know I I just might just let you just
just sort of like a that feels like it
should be a roll. I shouldn't be
generous. This is a cartoon. This is a
change shape roll. I'm trying to change
the shape to be really flat. Yeah. So,
in the game of tune, um you can also buy
a stickick. Uh for example, uh you could
have um you know, detect item like you
can always smell where carrots are. You
could be able to fly. You could have
incredible luck. I'm sad neither of you
two went for incredible luck, honestly.
So, expensive. Um but you went for the
stick of change shape. Very expensive
thing to buy in character creation. Um
please give me a change shape roll.
Okay, so my change shape is a seven. So,
we're looking for seven or less on 2v6.
That's an eight. Great. Oh my god.
cannot cannot wait. The tuna has a bunch
of tables which uh the GM can roll on. I
happen to notice one. I'm very glad you
went for change shape because there is a
failed shape change table here. See what
we get.
[Music]
Can't believe I failed my first roll.
Rob's like bouncing all over this zoo
saving babies and I can't even get
through this door. Listen, you may have
just had a couple of whisies already.
Maybe they just don't make doors for
fro. Um, okay. I'm going to So, you try
and flatten yourself, you I got pillow.
So, um, as you try your the f the front
half of your body slides under the door
perfectly, but that just means all the
gas in your body is pushed backwards
into the back half of your body. The
back half of your body inflates like a
balloon. Your head is through the door,
but your ass and legs are now the size
of a football and and uh very painful
looking. What do you do? Have you got a
bartender named for me, Quins? Uh the
you can see in the bar all you can see
is the feet of about 20 people walking
around inside the bar. You couldn't get
anyone's attention if you want. You
could try. I want to try. Okay, great.
The the first pair of uh behosened what
I'm trying to say. The first pair of
high heeled legs that walk past me. I go
Darlin. They immediately step on your
head. Please take 1d6 damage. Oh, you
you roll your own damage. I haven't
rolled my hit points. My hit points. Oh,
here we go. Are you Oh, just 1 D6. 1 D6.
I hopefully try and pick up 2d6.
Okay.
Oh my god. Level equally matched.
Equally matched. Villainous. You have a
total of 11 hit points. You're now going
to take 1d6 damage from a stiletto heal
stepping on directly between Oh, that's
a six. Yeah.
Um, so you're down to five hit points.
Yep. Great. Five of 11. um as a a high
heel stiletto heel steps between your
eyeballs, your eyeballs out um
horizontally and as the heel as the heel
comes away um you have a perfect square
indentation uh between your eyes and
your ass is still the size of a football
on the other side of a door and you
still really want a drink. What do you
do? I think I'm still just trying to
crawl through the door. There's no like
Okay, great. No, you crawl. I've got
nothing else. I just want a drink.
I have I've so been there. Um okay, you
crawl forward. forward, forward,
forward. Your arms getting purchased,
your sticky little pads pulling you
further and further. Your torso gets
longer and longer and longer and longer
until eventually
your your body shoots through the door.
You are launched out from under the door
at top speed and become like a perfectly
circular discus against the bar. Mhm.
Okay, great. So, you are now flattened
against the bar like a pancake. Um, uh,
what do you do? I climb gently,
gingerely up the bar. That sounds like a
climbing roll. It sounds like a climbing
roll. Got to love an RPG with a climb
skill. Love it. Where is Oh, climb is in
muscle rather than in zip. So, I put a
lot of points into it because uh Robert
is not strong. Yeah, you're both playing
characters with one muscle, which I
think says something about you two as
But yeah, give me a roll. I'd give you a
roll. What are you trying to get under?
Roll. Trying to get under a seven.
That's just rolling so high. Classic.
Um, what would you like to describe how
you climb onto the bar? Yeah. So, I
think uh as as my as my
uh hands, what do frogs have? Yeah, but
with with like sticky pads. I said pads
earlier and that felt good. Okay. Pads
as as I reach up and one of my pads
sticks on the wall like like Oh,
beautiful. Sticky sticky. And then I
managed to unpop the rest of my body
from the bar and climb up. And I get to
the top of the bar. And for the people
at home, Emily is doing the most amazing
frog climbing body language you've ever
seen. Okay, you finally get onto the
bar. Um, the bartender looks down at
you. I pick myself up and I dust myself
off and I go, "Sam." He tries to flick
you. He tries to fling me. He does not
know. Oh, does he? Oh, sorry. Sorry.
Whoa. Whoa. Okay. Play a GM. This is the
bar that I come to all the time. Great.
I would hate to yuck your anything. Um,
no. If that's an important like, how do
you know my name's Sam? Clink. I just
Okay, great. Didn't recognize you with
that indentation in your head. Yeah. You
know what? Do you know I think he didn't
recognize you. So, let's give me a This
is This is sort of a fighting role.
Well, give me give me a don't get
flicked roll dodge. How's your dodge
looking? My dodge is an eight. Very
important skill and tune. It feels like
Yeah. Easy pass. Come on. Sam, how do
you dodge out of the way of a finger
that goes flicked to my body becomes a
little U shape around the finger. Great,
great, great. Here for it. Okay. Um, the
finger flicks over your head and Sam
says, "Oh, sorry." Every time, Sam.
Sorry, Robert. Um, and then from down
the he pours you a whiskey, which is the
glass is easily the size of you. Um, and
it's two fingers of whiskey. Or do we
think you get a single drop of whiskey
in the in the glass? Yeah, I think I
think Is there a Doll's House tea set
that they bring out just for me? Oh,
wow. Okay. Yeah, like a tiny little like
a tiny porcelain cup. I'm going to need
a a man's glass today. Oh, they bring
out the dolls dive bar set and bring I
think he slides out Yeah. Like a a doll
a bathtub from a doll's house. Slides it
onto the table and then That's what I'm
talking about. puts two individual drops
of whiskey in the bottom of the bath.
How do you drink it? What does that look
like? Uh I stick my tongue straight out.
And it gets a bit of whiskey on it and
goes back into my mouth. Oh, great. And
what does your face look like upon
drinking the whiskey? Uh, my eyes go, if
possible, even further apart and sort of
like sinks slightly in my face. Oh,
great. Uh, it's actually making me want
to drink. Um, okay, great. From down the
bar, you can hear a guy saying, "Did you
hear the zoo lost the hippopotamus?" Um,
another ghost say, "How do you lose a
hippopotamus?" I'm telling you. Um and
uh and then he
continues GM exposition here. Um he
continues um yeah and that's not all. He
said which yes the high pitch. Yeah. No
great. I'm doing it. I'm doing it. He
says yeah and that's not all. He was
seen walking towards the homes of the
future exhibition. Um this surely Robert
is your nemesis nicotamus. You put him
behind bars at the zoo. Oh the zoo is a
prison. I'm honestly Emily I'm riffing.
I'm riffing. It was the accountant lying
in. Ask questions. I feel might call a
crime.
Um, but this is surely your nemesis. The
bartender looks down at you. He knows.
He knows. He says, "Don't do it, Robert.
Leave me to my business, Sam." Great. I
stand up and I start to walk across the
bar because I know that these three
Yeah. Good good accents there, Quins. Is
three different individuals. You can
tell they're actually from three
different parts of of New York of any
New York. They're three different
species. Yeah, sure. It's Yeah, this is
a question I have actually. Is everyone
human here except for me? Yes. Right.
Okay. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Cool. Uh I
walk across the bar and I try to look
incredibly sort of uh professional and
and serious, but of course people are
putting down their drinks and uh Oh,
yeah. back and forth. Yeah. Give me
another dodge roll. Sure.
Six pass. How do you dodge the various
cup? I think there is like, you know,
someone puts down a cup and you dodge
it. Makes sense. Then you walk down and
then like eight people, eight hands that
weren't previously there just begin
putting down cups, but you dodge them
all. Good gravy, madam. Watch where you
put in that cup. And I'm just kind of
sliding and and you bob, you weave, you
duck, you change shape, you become tall
and thin, you become low and flat. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And eventually I end
up by the three gentlemen presumably
gentlemen. Yeah. No. Great. Yeah. Well,
there were two gentlemen talking about
the the hippopotamus disappearing from
the zoo. Right. Cool. I say, "Gentlemen,
what do you know about this
hippopotamus?" One of them flicks
you. Uh,
okay. Great. Uh we are going to cut now
uh to the outside of the let's be the
first Looney Tunes cartoon where someone
goes [ __ ] sake as they get flattened
across. Yeah, I should have had some
sort of uh No, I disagree. I like I
really like canonically Robert Hopper
just has a mouth like a sewer. I think
that's awesome. Nicotamus is a
familyfriendly character. Robert Hopper
absolutely not. Miracle that God knows
how he got even produced. Great. So we
are now going to bring your two
characters together or momentarily.
[Music]
Nick, you are stood in a like beautiful
housing development. There is imagine a
house, a beautiful two-story house with
a tennis court out back and like a
little low sort of like uh pool house
looking thing behind the court. Um it is
the perfect American white picket fence
dreamhouse.
# Don't look up the racist implications
of American suburban development. And as
we zoom out though, we can see uh a
barbed wire fence with a single sort of
gate house with a security guard
sleeping in it and one of those like
black and white sort of arms that comes
down and up to let cars through. Um, as
we zoom out a little further, we can see
uh Nicopotamus. Nick, uh, you are you
are casing the house. What are you
doing? Uh, Nicopotamus is hiding in a
bin.
So the uh the lid of the bin just sort
of lifts up and an impossibly huge
hippopotamus face and eye sort of
protrudes out and it just scans scans
the place. He's looking for watchtowers.
He's looking for search lights. He's
looking for motion detectors. He's
looking for those lasers that he can do
that whole enttrapment leotard sliding
underneath thing. You remember the scene
from Enttra? I do. I do. Yeah. Uh so
he's he's he's casing the place. He's
taking a particularly close look at this
sleeping security guard. Okay, great.
He's doing the hole. Yeah. Who's got a
very familiar badge from Dozy Security
Guards Incorporated. Great. Quote, "We
never sleep."
I recognized this lot before. Great. Um,
yeah, fully he like sort of like
overweight looking guy, older. Uh, so
I've got to get inside. I I think the
first thing that I'm going to do is very
very cheerfully and with a giant smile
on my face. Uh I'm going to leap out of
the bin and I presume I'm in an alley
somewhere. I am I honestly there is
nothing for miles. Like this is like a a
a suburban grassy green housing
development. So it's just wait so is it
surrounded by other houses or is it in
the middle of like I think I I let's say
Yeah. So this is this house imagine the
sort of like texture of a suburban
environment but this house is fully just
by itself. Ah, so it's actually slightly
sinister. Yeah, I think hasn't picked up
on this. Yeah. No, great. But actually,
it's weird vibes. Um, would you like as
you're sort of like walk you said you
were walking forward getting close to
the house? Not quite. No, I mean I've
I've got a plan, but I'm still casing
it. I might walk all the way around it.
Okay. As you're walking all the way
around, there is a sign. Now, a fun rule
in tune is that if you ever pass
something with writing on it, it's not
that your characters can't read, it's
that you have to make a read roll to
notice it. So, please make a read roll.
Um, so that will be on my base smarts
cuz I haven't put any points in reads.
So that's a six. Good luck. 12. You walk
straight past a sign with um an
exclamation mark in one of those yellow
hazard triangles that is referring to
the house. Um, you don't read it
obviously. No, no. I just give You're
casing the house. Eyes on the house.
Don't read the sign. It's just it means
it's positive. So I just give the big
the sign a big thumbs up and I'll keep
going. Great.
Do you think we should tell the
listeners what the sign says or should
we I I mean I'd love to know as a as a
player of this game but but maybe I need
to try and read it as well. Maybe I'm
going to get here. I wonder. Um no I
think but we'll we'll present this to
the listeners as the cartoon would work.
Um the sign says home of tomorrow and
then underneath it says under
construction do not enter.
Perfect. Nicopotamus continues walking
around. Okay. So, having done a full
circuit of the There is just this fence
with um barbed wire on the top and then
there is uh a um like a chain link
fence. Um and then there is this guy
from Dozy Security uh sleeping in a
booth that is if anything smaller than
he is, but he has packed himself inside.
Okay. So, I think Nicopotamus first plan
is he's going to big smile. He's going
to produce a little soggy looking packet
of balloons. Okay. Is that in your
inventory? Yeah, I've got it written on
my possessions sheet. How on earth, Rob,
did you know that you were going to need
a little packet of balloons before we
even started? Because I've watched
cartoons. We do actually have a nice
thing before we started playing this
that Rob, cuz you are a bit of a genuine
early animation nerd. A bit. You showed
us some You showed us some classics. You
actually showed me and Emily our first
ever episode of Betty Boot. Oh, yes.
That trip. I would fully encourage
anyone listening to Snow White, which is
superb. Yeah. We watched the opening to
Roger Rabbit, one of my very very
favorite films. And then you also showed
us the new Disney Mickey Mouse cartoons.
I'd never actually seen a Mickey Mouse
cartoon, which is superb. Yeah. And
yeah, that was just incredibly strong
and beautifully illustrated. Yeah. Yeah.
And Ducker Muk, which is a a classic me
of the Merry Melody's uh uh series.
Yeah. Yeah. I I don't know. I I enjoy
cartoons. But that but then Yeah. Emily,
you're like, "Why does he know? Why Why
do you have balloons?" Turns out Rob may
have uh may have you and me both at a
disadvantage. Okay. There's been there's
enjoying cartoons and then there's
understanding cartoon logic and I guess
we'll find out.
Let's find out. Let's find out. So,
okay, he's going to he's he's thought
about these balloons, you know, it's
what he has in his burglar's kit, right?
So, he's going to he's going to flop one
of these things out. And I'm already
really excited for this scene. The
combination of balloons, a hippopotamus,
and barbed wire is surely a winning
concept. going to wink at the He's going
to wink at the And then he's going to
elaborately blow up a load of these
balloons.
Do you like blow up at I was going to
say, yeah. Oh, yeah. No, I think yes. He
he sort of like puts a load of them to
his mouth all at once. Tries to blow
them up. So, it's like this sort of So,
you don't even need to fasten them. If
you blow up 12, you just keep them
hooked in your mouth if you want. Yeah,
exactly. If I can blow them up, then I
keep them wedged in my mouth. And as I
blow them up, of course, they start to
float because that's how physics works.
And they get elevated up. What in the
I'm looking at the tune character sheet.
This has to There is no rule in tune for
this. That's flying.
Yeah. I don't have any points in flying.
I We have to as as a three, we now have
to look at this character sheet from
1983 and figure out what skill that
Right. But if like but Rob is a cartoon
aficionardo, you can't let that happen.
a rule on this. I have been playing role
games with Rob for long enough. You
absolutely cannot let this [ __ ]
have any power. No, no, no, no, no, no.
I'm not going to cartoon lawyer this
either. The word. Okay, let's start with
Do we sneak? I think it kind of falls
under smarts. That's fine. Do you want
to do a straight smarts roll? Okay.
Yeah, that's fine. That's six. So, um
I'm not great. Not a great uh seven. So,
I fail. Okay, great. Now, so I I assume
Well, I don't know. I would dude I would
this if in this game of all games I am
fully here for you two pitching what
happens. I definitely think you start
floating and I definitely you know I
think I might have this. I think the
wind just picks you up and blows you in
completely the opposite direction. Yeah.
Uh let's see. One of the balloons also
empty going.
So he starts slowly
accelerating. If the balloon deflates
they're still in my mouth. So it starts
inflating me. So, we start sinking and
being blown out to sea because suddenly
we notice that the suburban house is
actually right on the edge of a cliff
and it's nothing but Atlantic for miles.
This is great. I mean, I was I'm looking
at I have a random teleport location
table that I'm reading now. And um I I
do Out to Sea is great. I do prefer
number 36 on this table, which is into
the nearest source of flame.
Yep. Bourbon barbecue, two guns. Oh,
there we go. Perfect. Yeah. No, you just
you can see like it there is nothing for
miles around except for a single family
with a barbecue. Like quite literally
the only thing you don't want to land on
for a mile and the dad is midway through
going, I got this, honey. I'm telling
you. And he uploads an entends like an
entire canister of fire lighting fluid
on this tiny barbecue and then it just
[ __ ]
Yeah. So it's of flame. 12t tall pillar
of flame. Great. So, what do you are
hurtling toward this at unbelievable
speed? I get grilled pretty good, I
think. No, I think I'm going to give you
a way out. Oh, okay. Uh, then I think I
probably just suck all of the air back
out of the balloons and plummets and
probably land like a stride their picket
fence. Oh, okay. Great. Fine. Uh, you
take one damage. Wow. A single one
damage from with the picket fence
directly between your legs. Yeah. Yeah.
But as a cartoon character, I don't have
any genitalia, of course. No. Great.
Just the one. Nonetheless, visually
fine. Um, uh, Robert Hopper. You have
not seen this. It's pronounced Robert.
Robert. I Mr. Hopper. No. Okay. No,
we'll stick with PI. Okay. You have to
have PI on the end. It's inspector. This
is such a [ __ ] quadruple. Robert
Hopper. Pi is what I have to say every
time. No, not really. Okay. Well, we'll
see when I run out of patience. Okay.
Robert, you are outside of the house.
You are casing it. You do not know that
Nicopotamus. In fact, the camera I think
just pans from right to left to reveal
that while uh Nicopotamus is on a stride
and pick a fence, you are looking at the
house assuming that this master burglar
is surely already inside the house. So,
you are maybe in the same bin that
Nicopotamus was just in peering out at
the house. Uh what do you do? Uh well, I
I try and open the bin, but presumably
that that's a role because I'm really
not very strong. Yeah, you got in the
bit. Okay, great. Uh do you have a lift
heavy objects? Uh, it's a pickup heavy
thing. It's a one. Okay, great. So, you
have to you have to get one or less on
2d6. No, no, I read it in the book. A
two always wins. Oh, really? Nice. So,
if you if you manage to roll snake eyes,
see, don't let me lawyer.
That's not double. Great. That's seven.
Yeah. Classic. It like I lift it just a
tiny bit enough to get my half body out
and then it cuts. Oh, that's great.
Yeah. Your Yeah. Once again, again,
dissected. What is happening to me?
Great. Uh, what do you do? Um, I put my
thumb in my mouth and go
try and jack myself up. Okay, perfect.
As you're doing that, you could uh the
security guard who has now woken up
walks over and slings a bag of trash
into the bin, flattening you and pushing
you back to the bottom of the bin. Oh,
come on. Do I not pop out? Do you not
pop out? No. No. Robert, you're still in
a bin. You're still in a bin. Welcome to
a Quincrat adventure. Get out of the
bin.
Okay.
Um, uh, you know what? I will say that
as you realize he's about to throw the
trash on you. So, you are now like an
inflated beach ball propping the lid of
the bin open. You have a moment to act
before the trash is thrown on top of
you. What do you do? Uh, I go, "Sir."
Um, he Okay. He puts the rubbish on top
of you. Okay. Flattening you to the
bottom of the bin.
Every time I've tried to talk to
someone, you've like punished me. That's
rude. You do have a fast talk skill. Oh,
[ __ ] sake. That's also a one. Great.
Please roll 2d6 and see.
I like to imagine that's not double
ones, is it, Emily? Um, I like to think
that this is just people don't hear you.
It's not that you're being you're not
being reasonable. As soon as you said
you were playing a frog, I was like,
great. I'm a step on this [ __ ] World
of
humans 1%. I was just like, yeah, no,
great. World of human. How do humans
treat frogs? I've got this. Yeah. Um, so
while this is frustrating for you, at
least now I'm having a great time. So,
so pleased for you, Quinn. All right,
you're at the bottom of a bin. What do
you do? You know what? Let's actually
jump back to jump back to Nicopotamus.
Um, Nicopotamus. Uh, Nicobotamus pops up
out of an adjacent bin. What's next to
me? You're both staring at the same
house trying to get in. Uh, what do you
do? Nicopotamus has got to formulate a
new strategy. So I think
I think I can you take one damage from
being compressed by rubbish. No, just
one. I'm not Don't make me roll it cuz I
might die.
Is the security guard like reading
something or has he gone back by the bin
now? He went and threw a bag of trash in
the bin. Now he's gone back to his
booth. Now he is reading a book called
SEC or a magazine called Security Guard
Monthly. Oh, okay. Yeah. He turned it on
its side in a big center for Beautiful.
Yeah.
Um, okay. Then I think I'm going to try
and disguise myself as the security
guard's boss. I think, sorry, I'm stuck
on this. I think the centerfold is like
16 pages long for some reason. Like it's
it's one page wide and 16 pages long. So
this is what we see then. So the he he
holds the magazine up vertically and
then the center folds out and it unrolls
along the floor like a red carpet. Just
as it gets to a stop, this big crimson
like high heel Lubboutan just pins it to
the floor and uh Nicopotamus has
disguised himself as the boss of the
sleepy security guard company. Come to
get this guy in. Please give me a quick
disguise. Was that skill calls?
Uh come under my stick for change
disguise. Oh yeah, it is. I am going to
rinse this. My eyes are lighted on the
skill. Parcel detects shoddy goods,
which also feels maybe appropriate to
what you're doing right now. You're
calling me shoddy goods. Well, I'm Let's
see how this goes. I'm Beatress boss
lady. The boss lady boss lady of sleepy
security guard. How are you not How is
this not your player character? Giant
giant red dress, giant bust, giant giant
giant uh blonde hair. No, no visible
face. Like it's just no face. Just bust,
chin, hair, the whole thing. And she's
going to tell him that he's doing a a
crap job. Let's Okay, first off, quick
disguise or disguise. Quick disguise. Uh
trying to beat a nine. That's a six.
Nice. Okay, great. So, click click
click. Walking down the sort of long
center, the security guard does not move
a muscle, but you see the pupils of his
eyes go up up up up to make not eye
contact with you because we can't see
your eyes cuz you're just a wig. Yeah.
And then he looks back and forth from
the cover of the magazine which features
Beatric Boss Lady in in like the Beatric
Beatric boss boss lady. Yeah, it's but
confusingly it's actually Beatatrice X
boss lady with her middle initial and
that that is printed in giant letters
across the front of this magazine and
it's like how does she do it?
Even more letters. She has it. She can
have it all. I the GM am obsessed with
Vistress X boss lady. I need to focus on
the adventure. I got to I got to pass my
own [ __ ] fast talk role for this.
Right. Uh oh. And then so she but bear
in mind that I am a hippopotamus
disguised as as Beatric Xbox lady. And
so uh she like folds her arms and she
says, "We're in trouble, mate."
Uh oh, it's the same. Oh, okay. Oh,
right. Sorry. I was like, "How is that
voice?" The same disguise voice. I fully
forgot that. I'm not going to do a
sexist like voice
on find out. Carried away by the by the
role you were playing. I couldn't
understand why that voice came out.
bully in character as the security
guard. Is this episode play to find out
how long it takes for Rob to completely
run circles around all of us and be the
GM of this game? It's we're we're
getting we're getting that sort of
weirdly close, aren't we? Yeah. Okay.
God d to be clear when I there were like
a bunch of games I was thinking about
playing. Rob like pitched so hard for it
to be too and I knew this was I knew
this would happen. And not cuz I'd read
it. I read it last night, but I was
excited just by the concept. Yeah. Okay.
All right. So you walk up, you say,
"What was what did you say again?" I
said, "You're in trouble, mate." Um, he
looks up and goes, "What? I'm in
trouble." Um, make a fast talk roll. Oh
[ __ ] See, this is not my strength at
all. Visually, fine. Nick, no. He's not
great at fast talk. It It's his base
hood, so it's six. Hippo. Hippo is
generally not. No, it's a nine. I saw a
six happen over there. I couldn't see
the other thing, but I was like, that's
a fail, mate. Okay, great. It was a
sound plan in theory, but then I opened
my big big
a really big mouth.
Um, okay. Give me a second. I'll accept
pictures for how this goes wrong. Well,
I want to stress that probably whatever
it is that I'm saying is not audible
from uh uh Robert's bin over there.
Yeah. No, that's fine. Robert is
currently just like looking still trying
to get out. Get out of the I was like,
yeah. No, I was saying that. Yeah,
Robert's also still trying to figure out
how to get into the house. No, that's
not what's happening. I can get into the
house. Like, you actually got this out
the bin. Yes. Um, that chain link fence
perfectly for Ox. I'm just going to I'm
not even going to squeeze through there.
Like I don't have to roll for this. It's
larger than my body. I love this. I will
also point out the tune rules are so
cruel for what constitutes like what is
it? Lift heavy thing. Pick up heavy
things. Yeah, it specifically says heavy
thing is twice your own body weight. So,
choose to play a frog.
Um, okay. So, but you can fit through
the fence. So, it swings and roundabouts
as we say in English. Um, okay. Okay.
So, you approach, you say, um, you're in
trouble, mate. You're in trouble, mate.
And I suspect what happens is, well,
have you got a plan or? Uh, I kind Well,
um, uh, he stands up and like it sort of
stands up in the tiny booth, like fully
filling the booth. Uh, he stands up and
says, "Uh, trouble. I have been a model
employee for this company. Beatric, do
you not remember what we did last
summer?" Uh, his eyes become slightly
soft and filled with tears as he
remembers a deeply romantic encounter he
had with the real Beatric boss lady.
[Music]
I didn't think you'd bring that up in
the workplace, Beatric. Now, he comes
out of the booth and puts his arm around
your waist and puts a hand behind your
neck. No, no, no, no. We're all
professionals here, Beatric. I hadn't
been able to stop thinking about you
since that trip to Benadorm last summer.
It it it certainly is a magical. Do you
remember what you wore? I wore. Now, now
let's not get into that. It's a
familyfriendly program. I think at that
point his phone rings.
[Music]
Who? Oh, the guy in the phone rings.
Yeah. Yeah. And the caller, we zoom in
on the caller ID and it says Beatatric X
boss. This is You are just GMing. That's
what's happening. Does that happen, Rob?
Or do you not get to decide? I'm
pitching. You're a player. Let's jump
back to I'm going to punish you by
jumping back to Robert in the bin.
Robert, I'm jumping out the bin. There's
one of those like like it's like if
you've only got a bottle to put in this
bin, there's a hole in the top of the
bin or you can lift up the lid to put a
bag in. Okay, great. There is a very
narrow aperture in the top of the bin.
Please make a jump roll. Right. Please
let me get out the bin. Emily is now
figuring out that you just have to pitch
jump as when you're playing a frog.
Pitch everything to the GM as a jump
roll. My jump is an eight. That's a six.
You go flying out the bin. the camera
sort of like we see nicopotamus and in
the background you see I can't I've
forgotten how you could just Robert okay
Robert um I feel like you do it better
than I do it oh yeah that's the cro
might be from a a childhood learning
Welsh maybe oh really is there a lot of
that in Welsh no oh okay anyway you just
got to make strange noises anyway I I'm
very excited for you to play well
you uh just see in the background
around shoot
up out of the bin and then like up into
the air like disappears out of frame for
like 10 seconds and then lands just
outside the
Okay. Uh Nicopotamus you the phone is
not ringing the boss lady. Yes, you're
being fully romanced. Uh okay, then I
think uh Nicopotamus is out of his
depth. He is not a romantic uh
character. He doesn't he never you know
he never thought of the security guard
in that way. And if he thought that uh
he would you know accidentally kind of
cause this workplace trrist this clinch
then he'd never have got into this
disguise situation in the first place.
He is flop sweating and uncomfortable.
And that is I suspect whatever Beatric's
intentions are with this security guard.
I suspect that the like nail chewing
panic on his face is out of character
for the boss lady. So, I think he just
needs to get out of this situation as
quickly as possible. I think he probably
says, "Oh, that's that's that's my phone
ringing." Uh, you know how it is, busy
boss lady. Hello. And he produc like
just one hand, no phone in it. He just
answers his hand. Hello. Uh, your flop
sweat, which is causing your sheer dress
and wig to become matted to your
hippopotamus body. Um uh the security
guard says, "Oh, I do lost my Irish."
"Oh, I do love your dampness." "Oh, you
wait the [ __ ] That was I had a
sentence that made more sense." No, no,
that's that's my new ringtone. I think
he's going to wiggle his way out of the
uh the arm. Does he just leave the
clothes and the wig behind more or Yeah,
I think he doesn't realize that he's
done it actually. Yeah, he's going to
So, he's like squeezing. This guy's like
embracing him really hard. This is
categorically a dodge roll. And she's
going to squeeze and squeeze and like
kind of pop out and inadvertently leave
all the clothing behind and then turn
around. Still all
you need to use the the what conditional
verb tense, Rob, because it hasn't
happened yet. Uh yeah, that's a six.
Rolling under my seven scrap by just um
Okay. Seems like dodge would be useful.
Putting pop you come out the clothes. Um
he begins hugging the clothes for a
while. Yeah. Um and then fully doesn't
realize that he's hugging just a dress
and a wig. Then Nicobotus is just going
to sneak off. Okay, give me a sneak
roll. Okay. Uh, but he's he's sneaking
back to the alley like, you know, he's
he's given up on this plan. Uh, that's a
five on sneak. Great. You sneak straight
in. Um, let's jump back to
um Emily, you have landed on the bin
side, not the side you want to be of the
fence. Uh, what do you do? I think I
just uh I see that the security guard is
distracted. I think maybe you catch
sight of Nicopotamus just getting up to
the front door like creeping along.
There he is. That's your quarry. I I
immediately start like challenging
towards him, but but uh I don't want to
I want to be stealthy cuz I want to
catch him in the act so I can arrest him
again. Okay, perfect. Do you have sneak?
Uh two. Two. That's no better than one.
But I'm so small. You are very tiny. You
are pretty much just the height of a
blade of grass, so you can just be
frogging your way. God, it's quite
creepy to be pursued by a police frog.
And I'm his police frog. You're not
noticing this. Okay, great. Private
investigator. Private investigator.
Private investigator. You can see Nick.
Uh Nick, you're at the entrance to the
house. You look back and see your
nemesis. The one who put you in the
zoo for life. Maybe that's a bit of
world building. We're not exploring.
We're not exploring it. Don't worry
about it. Let's move on.
Nick, you catch sight of Robert. Robert,
you catch sight of Nick. Nick, you are
just at the entrance to the completely
normal house with nothing wrong with it.
What do you do? Oh, you all right,
Robert?
Aotamus. How How are you? How are you?
I've got to thank you, by the way, for
setting me up with that sweet job at the
zoo. I love pleasing children. I'm
completely disarmed by Rob, who's giving
me like the nicest smile over the mic
right now. Yeah, but then then I I
immediately try and I try the front
door. I just I'm just pointing it at the
number one on Emily's character. I mean,
don't let me run your character for you.
No, no, no, no. Cuz I've got nothing. Uh
Rob has disarmed me. Except he hasn't
because Robert pulls out a gun. Let's
go. Hands up immediately. Hands up. Oh,
don't you move,
Aonomus. You just stay right there. His
eyes immediately start to slide to the
right. Important detail. Is this gun
frog sized or humans sized? I quite like
if it's a frogsized
gun and he he acts with just terror.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And is it
like a like a police revolver or like a
Glock? Oh, I don't know the difference.
It's a revolver. It's a classic like a
cartoon revolver. Correct. There's a
little cute gun there. Yeah. You're
pointing this like needle signized gun
at me.
Don't do it. Parlamus, you're going back
to the zoo. Don't do what? Do what? And
I think both of our eyes slide to the
house and then slide back to each other
immediately. We both know why you're
here. I mean, it sounds like they've got
they've got some shiny things in there.
O officer, inspector, private
investigator. Robert,
are we not on firstname terms at this
point, mate? I mean, no. What is your
first name? No, wait. You're Robert?
Yeah. No, I know. It's Mr. Harbor to
you. Nicopotamus.
Nicopotamus is going to kick the bottom
of the front door and try and spin it
vertically around and just spin into the
house. Well, oh, because you're stood
next to the door. So, you will be I've
got my back to the door, hands up. I'm
like taller than the door, but I'm going
to like just kick the base like where
the cat flap would be. I would kick the
base of the door and try and get it to
like flip around and rotate like it's a
wind like a watermill. Wow. And it take
me into the house with it. Wow. What is
this? Uh this is I I technically this is
a breakdown door roll. Oh [ __ ] I'm I'm
absolutely rubbish at that. I don't
know. I mean but also I mean I would
kind of let this be a set trap because
it's a fun idea. Just like uh Okay,
sure. Okay. Give me a set trap. Uh well
that's equal. Uh, my set trap is eight.
Oh, that that's still a
pass. Robert, he was so close. The door
spins. Uh, Nicotus is launched into the
house. You immediately hear a very
expensive sounding crash from inside the
house. What do you do? The the door is
still I'm going to go over it. And I go
straight through the door as well.
Great. But presumably, give me a dodge
roll. Yeah. Okay. Presumably there are
consequences. Rob, please take 1d6 hit
points of damage from being
eight. No, that is my eight. Yeah, my
dodge is eight. So, do you want to How
do you get through the door with perfect
timing? Um, I think I I just jump at it
and because I jump so perfectly cuz
perfectly timing.
You launch like a like a like a bullet
of your very own through the door
perfectly as if like you're shooting
through a fan. Uh, I'm going to roll my
damage. That's four. I'm now on five hit
points. How does that make you feel? I
don't think I've noticed. So, you're on
five hit points and then, uh, Robert,
how many points you on? I'm on a four.
Okay, great. Um, just at that moment as
we see the external of the house, um,
you hear a security guard yell,
"Beatric." Um, as we and then he looks
up back towards the house and begins
sprinting towards it.
And that is where we will end our first
episode of tune. That was kind of cute.
[Music]
Goodbye everybody.
That's all folks. Yeah, that's all. Uh
that's it.
That's all nothing. I Yeah.
Thank you so much for listening
everybody. But if you're listening to
this on YouTube or on the public podcast
feed, your adventure is just beginning.
In the description of this episode,
you'll find a link to the Quinn's Quest
Patreon where you can find whole seasons
of Play to Find Out, as well as talkback
episodes where me and Emily and Rob chat
about the design of these games and we
complain about why behind the scenes
they were uniquely annoying to run. And
of course, that gets you access to all
the other Patreon benefits as well, such
as more Quinn's Quest videos, blogging,
and access to the Quinn's Quest Discord,
where this month folks are organizing a
Skyrems of Joe Rune game jam. Those
people are nuts and amazing, but
predominantly nuts. Here's a sneak peek
of what's coming up in the next episode
of Toon.
Are you two ready to enter a house of
dangers and disasters and maybe giggles?
Hell yes. I guess so.
What do the uh Can I ask questions about
this? Yeah, sure. What are the things
that look like arms? Let's play to find
out.
The robot dog looks at you and says,
"Aarf."
There are a bunch of 3D movie posters.
You can see a train thundering towards
you. You can see an airplane zooming
through the air. You can see a tiger
leaping out at you. You need to now make
a smarts roll to see if you know that
it's fake or
not. This episode of PTFO was edited and
sounddesigned by Brian Flatty of
Manyided Media with podcast art by Paul
Watson. We use the name play to find out
with permission from Meg and Vincent
Baker.
[Music]
