[Music]
Hello everyone, my name's Quins and
welcome to the first ever episode of
Quins Quest Play to Find Out, the actual
play show where I torture two of my
friends by playing notorious old
TTRPGs from history. And for season 1,
we have an absolute stoner for you. A
stone cold monsterpiece 1984 fantasy
RPG Sky Realms of Joe Rune. Search for
more info on this game if you like, but
for this series, I chose to send my
players in completely blind. So, it may
feel natural for you to go in blind with
them. But before our story begins, I'll
just take a second to talk about why I'm
doing this. Why when every other actual
play series is showcasing slick modern
games, I'm running the cursed, crusty,
weird ones, where you can hear actual
rage on this recording when my players
ask me how a rule works. It's quite
simple, really. I think this series is a
little bit of what the role playing
community needs. Listen, as gamers,
there's something we're rather bad at,
and that's our cultural memory. Us folks
who love games are always obsessing over
what's new, what's hot, and what
marketing tells us is about to be new
and hot. And that's not the worst thing.
It shows that we want our play to stay
shiny and inventive.
But the thing is, this way we're always
looking forward means that we're just
quicker to forget things, quicker to
forget the wild experiments of the 80s
and '90s. When the designers of
yesterday year didn't put any less love
into their games than the designers of
today, far from it, they saw
possibilities in role playing that today
we might not even consider. So that's
one reason. But then also these games
are just so fun and so funny. And while
so help me God, the rule sets are not
funny with their bad writing and
mathematics and stapled together
handtyped sheets of Arata that are
simply a hellscape. I thought you, dear
listener, might get a kick out of
hearing us suffer. On that note, if
you're listening to this podcast on the
Quins Quest Patreon, you'll find a link
to Rob and Emily's character sheets, as
well as some other artwork and game
materials from Sky Realms of Joe Run, so
you can see a fragment of this dreadful
paperwork that we're working with. One
final short note before we begin. The
awesome phrase play to find out was
originated by legendary RPG designers
Meg Baker and Vincent Baker. And we are
using the name PTFO with their express
permission. And with that, let's hit
play on Play to Find Out season 1
episode 1.
Hello, Rob. Hi. Hello, Emily. Hi, Quinn.
How are we doing? Good. Nervous? Yeah.
You both look Yeah, you both looked at
each other really concerned. Like you
think what's about to happen is going to
be unpleasant. And frankly, I think
that's rude. I I think I feel like we've
just been dragged into the head teachers
office and we don't really know what
we've done. Okay. Well, oh, I know what
I did. We deserve this. Let's let's
let's just give the the people at home
some context. Rob, you have been
veterans of the campaigns of Spire.
That's right. Heart. Correct. Masks.
Yes. Wild Sea. Uhhuh. Slug Blaster. Keep
going. Vison. Yeah. Stone. Mothership.
Yes. Emily. Yes. You have been a veteran
of Slug Blaster? Yes. Vison? Yes. Stone
Top? Is that it? Yes, for now. But to
today, I'm going to ask you to to to
take on the most important role of all,
my friends, to then additionally take on
another role in the game Skyrems of Joe
Run. Now, what would you two say you
know about the game Skyrims of Joe Run?
I would say that I couldn't even
remember what it was called when I was
trying to tell people I was going to
play this game. Okay, that's fine. Uh,
Rob, I assume that sky realms are
involved, but beyond that, I haven't the
foggiest. I don't want to spoil the
adventure we're about to play, but you
two might actually find yourselves going
to a Skyrim today. Whoa. Um, okay. Let
me give you some context for this game.
All right. So, uh, cast your minds back
to the year 1984 when Emily wasn't
alive. I wasn't alive. Great. I also
wasn't alive. Okay. Actually, neither
was I. Um, on the radio you could uh
hear Prince, Queen, and Wham. The 3 and
a/4 in floppy disc had just been
invented. And the toy of the year is
Nintendo's blaster thing, which was
popularized by Duck Hunt. And most
importantly, Andrew Laker and artist
Miles Tees founded Skyrems Publishing in
order to turn a high school English
assignment into the first edition of
Skyrems of Joe Run. The very next year,
they released a big boxed set, the
second edition, which is what we'll be
playing today. Now, if Skyrims of Jun is
remembered for one thing, it's that it
was super weird and kind of laughable.
That is not fair. Honestly, Skyrims of
June was reviewed really well. It had
fan zenes. It received positive reviews
all over the world. There was a third
edition in 1992 published by Chessix.
And even in 1994, there was a Skyrems of
Joe Run video game. Hell yes. Does that
mean this game is not weird? No. This
game is so strange. This game is like
almost intolerably strange. Uh well,
you're going to get into why pretty soon
as we start playing. The reason I wanted
to revisit it, though, is that fantasy
these days is really codified thanks to
the gravity surrounding big brands like
Dungeons and Dragons and World of
Warcraft. These days, fantasy, we sort
of know what it is. Like, we all know
roughly what an elf is. And by goodness,
we expect elves to be in our fantasy
game. That was not the case before these
brands got super big. And I partially
want to go back to Joe Run with you two
today to explore a time when fantasy was
frankly a little more fantastical.
It's also super weird. Really can't
overstate how weird this is. So, uh,
today I will not be your GM. I will be
your shellari.
Okay. Uh, in the Shanthic language,
Shellari means guide or teacher. I'm
just also going to give you two as my
players a bit of advice from the Skyrims
of Joy Run second edition manual. Amit
asks a sort of FAQ, is it possible to
win at role playing? Uh, no. The purpose
of roleplay is to enjoy yourself and
success is only sweet in contrast with
failure. So, with that, uh, goodness me,
I guess it's time to start. Now, you two
don't have character sheets in front of
you. Nope. And you don't know anything
about the world. That's fine. That's
going to be part of our experience
today. Okay, here we go. A world of
adventure
[Music]
awaits. Emily, you wake up. Your body is
racked with pain. Staring up into the
sky, you can see a sort of greenish blue
sky above you, studded with three or
four moons in the color of amber, ochre,
red, and a sort of pale gray. The taste
in your mouth is of a sort of spicy dust
which you realize is sand and dirt and
you realize you are lying on your back
on top of a a small pack like a turtle
lying on its shell. The sun blasts into
your eyes, making it hard to see, and
you realize your forehead is sheened in
sweat. What do you do? Uh, I think I I
slowly raise myself up. So, I'm sitting
and I look around. Great. Um, you raise
yourself up. As you do so, you realize
that you are wearing some kind of like
leather jerkin outfit over your torso.
Um, your arms and legs are muscular and
tan and bare. Uh, on your hip you can
see a mean looking knife. And around
you, you can see a sort of arid, dusty
landscape with no plants that you or I
would recognize. In the planet of June,
all of the flora and fauna is peculiar.
There are cactuses that look like weird
bubos. There are trees that are long and
scraggy and gnled like fingers. And you
can see in the distance what looks like
a massive cabbage. Mhm. also next to
you. So, you squint down, you realize
you are next to a very decrepit looking
child. But no, actually, it's not a
child because it doesn't have a child's
big head. That it is what looks to all
extensson's purposes like a sort of 4ft
tall full grown man. So, like imagine a
man and then use Photoshop to just
reduce the scale to like 60%. This man
looks frail and weak and has a sort of
like lank brown hair cast over his face
and looks unconscious like you were a
moment ago. Rob, hi. You wake up. Um,
Emily, you see this man, his eyes open
like sand and dirt gumming his eyelids
together. Uh, Rob, you wake up and see a
massive human next to you. um a woman
with her hair tied back in a sort of
like tight business-like braid. She
looks mean and strong and really can't
overstate this. Simply massive compared
to you. Um you two look at each other
squinting through the heat and the sun
and the dust. What do you do?
I think I raise an eyebrow and I think
uh we're lying on the floor. I'm lying.
You're lying on the floor. It looks like
you're lying in the middle of a road. It
looks like you are walking down a road
through an arid landscape and just
passed out like within two feet of each
other. You are not wearing armor. You
are wearing sort of like thin robes
covering your bony frame. I'm going to
check my pockets. Uh oh, great. You know
what? I've been looking forward to this
moment for 4 days. I think it's time for
you two to receive your character
sheets. Okay. Are you ready? Yes.
Emily, for the next four sessions, you
will be playing the character of Sloop
Chandane. Sloop Chandane. Rob, welcome
to the role of Kenth Argelios. Heck yes.
Such a good name. I get the name Sloop.
I think Sloop is a cool name. These
names all come from the Skyrims of June
uh handbook. Sloop Chande. Okay. I you
I've already forgotten your name. It was
too I have questions. Um, why do we have
a color number? Oh, would you like to
read out your stats for the people at
home? Hang the hell on. Okay, Kenth Ken
Argelius, uh, I've got the box ticked
for Muadra, so I'm definitely not human.
That box is empty, but I'm also not a
bookord, which raises questions. It's
okay. Stats. Constitution 11. Doesn't
soundling middling. Okay. Social 16
sounds pretty good. Color, my color is
18, Quins.
Is this a Panone reference? Explain
yourself. Yeah, so to be clear, most of
Skyrim's Jarun stats come from Dn D. And
then also there is the color stat. Your
amnesiac protagonists. I'm going to let
you see if you could figure out what
that means. But yes, Kenthalios has a
whopping 18 color. Which color is that?
Uh, you know, you two seem the same sort
of like olive dark skin. So, color
doesn't seem to have anything to do with
your actual skin tone. Okay. All right.
We're going to have to compare notes.
Strength eight. Education nine. Okay.
Middling. Middling. Middling. Okay. I'll
be honest, Rob, when I rolled your Well,
excuse me. When I rolled Kent's stats,
um, thank you. Whopping 18 in color,
pretty forgettable everything else.
Apart from my issue,
my ishow is down as 35. blowing the rest
of the stats out of the water. 35. Wait,
what's your is show? It's a seven.
Okay. I think in an ish show situation
or ish situation as we call in the 30
level 35 levels of expertise. Um I think
I'll take the lead. Okay. What would
I've only done half of the stats?
Anyway, take us through what you've got.
What? Should we finish Ken's stat first?
So Ken has uh speed 12, agility 9, aim
18, excellent
spot 10. Yeah. Yeah. Spot singular learn
11 and listen 12. Never my strong suit.
Uh maximum lifting weight. I'm so glad
that's specified. 80 lb. Size modified
at minus one. 80 lb is so not much at
all. Yeah. No. Again, I I'll stick to
the IshO situation. Can Can we have
these lifting weights in kilograms?
Actually, no. As written, I'm afraid
you're stuck. I think a pound is like 2
and a4 pound of jam weighs about a
kilogram. Why are you [ __ ] comparing
everything in jam? It's It's just a
rhyme. Oh, is that real? What is What's
the rhyme?
I'll be honest, I don't remember how
many pounds of jam weighs about a
kilogram, but I think it's two and a
quarter. This is This is a Americans are
going to think we're we're making this
up. This is a real part of the British
school sisters. What is a pound? Okay. I
think I think 2 and a bit is a kilogram.
Okay. Oh [ __ ] I can lift can bench.
Yeah. So I I can lift about Okay. You
can lift about 40 kilos. I can lift
about a shopping basket basically. Yeah.
Look, like you said, Kenneth Argelios'
specialties are color and eho. That's
right. And I have a size modifier of
minus one, a strength bonus of zeroin,
and an attack bonus of minus one. Appear
to have a spear. Let's let Hey, let's
let's do sloop stats first. We can't
have Kenth doing main character energy.
Okay, read it and weep apart from the e
show thing. Constitution 18. Who? Just
excuse me. Uh, social 10. Uh, color
seven. Very kind of poor. poor, not very
social, socialable, not very colorful.
Uh, strength 14, education 14, wa e show
seven, as we discussed. Speed 14.
There's a lot of 14s. I feel like um,
it's what happens when you roll dice for
stats is sometimes you just roll weird
numbers. Yeah. Yeah. Agility 11, aim
four. So again, all the precision stuff
is you. Yeah. Okay. Spot eight. I've got
eight of those or just one spot that is
equal to eight. Nice. What is spot? Spot
is your obviously spots your ability to
spot things. Oh, it's you literally have
a stat entirely based. Yes. Spot is
perception. Yeah. You're being
listening, which is completely different
and has an entirely different Yeah, you
do roll separately for listening. It's
not called spot and like hear noise.
Yeah. Yeah. Learn 13, listen nine.
Again, we're not we're not big listeners
actually. You're a better listener than
I am. I think slightly, but I think if I
were a better listener, neither of us
would be in this mess. Uh, stats cost
just the the top of this particular like
uh news item. Why don't you have a
brown? I've given you each three whole
sheets of paper. I just haven't even
bothered to look at the next one yet cuz
Oh my god, it looks like the like the
racing sheets of like what horses have
come first. Do you know what I mean? And
it's and it's just as illeible to me.
What the hell is this? What are you
talking Why have you got like I spent
quite literally hours on these character
ships. I'm sure you did. Okay. Well,
under action skills, there's an entire
section of there's a a really really
detailed, juicy looking grid for
handtohand combat. There's so much grid
action here and range combat. Then under
athletic skills, we've got a number of
options. I hope this isn't our entire
pallet of abilities. Jump, climb rock.
Very specific. Climb, climb tree, just
in case. Climb rope, swim, crowd
maneuver. Crowd maneuver. Yeah. And then
slap hands. Dude, here's the crazy thing
about uh looking at
I think sloop has a slap hands. Sloop
has a rank in slap hands. I have a plus
two. I don't I can't I have a I these
grids mean nothing to me. Okay, let me
explain. So, what I've done is
highlighted you only pay attention to
the rightmost bit of highlighting skill
rank, right? Okay. Um so, the rightmost
highlighted thing is your ability in it.
If there are further notches to the
left, it's because like I upgraded it
several times during character creation.
Oh, I see. If if nothing has been
uh if nothing has been highlighted, then
uh it means you don't have that skill at
all. So, slap hands. Here's the crazy
thing about games from the 80s. They
high fives are involved. Lots of high
fives. No, I there I've got like 400
pages of Skyrims with Joe Run Box set.
I've read all of it. Slap Hands is not
mentioned at all. So, I have no idea
what slap hands is, but I decided to
give uh Sloop a point in it because if
she wanted to slap hands or wanted to
pitch me on what that skill meant, I
figured it was only fair that you could
just let me know. Okay, noted. Great. I
have a minus three in slap hands. That's
good. That means your to hit number is I
guess reduced by or like the the roll is
reduced by three. I see. So, so lower
numbers are better. Well, actually the
sometimes you'll be rolling a Dund for
skill check. Sometimes it's a d20.
Sometimes it's roll under. Sometimes
it's roll over. Don't worry about it.
The further to the right the
highlighting goes, the better you are at
it. That's all that matters. Okay, I
confirmed. I suck. Can we Can we return
to We missed my maximum lifting weight
and I just want to This is why I was
asking how is a kilogram because it's
240. That seems like a lot. That seems
like a lot. Sloop is basically an
Olympian. How heavy is a human being in
pounds? Oh, well, Homer Simpson, my only
friend of reference, right? Homer
Simpson in a Simpsons episode once
bursts into tears because he weighs
himself and discovers he weighs 250 lbs.
Okay. So, you can I can lift Homer
Simpson basically. Yes. Okay. I I can
understand that as a which is a crazy
weight. No, Sloop is is
Yeah, I know. Max. Fortunately, this
isn't one of those games from the 80s
that gives women a penalty to strength.
But even if it was, then Sloop would
probably still be a [ __ ] menace.
Yeah, this is true. Yeah. Yeah. Sloop
also good with a knife, you'll notice.
Will I I mean where where Oh, I see.
Yeah, knife is highlighted for me. Thank
you, Quins. Because otherwise, I would
have no idea where knife is on this. But
yeah, it does seem that compared to
Sloop, Kenth is a bit of a bogus man
who's crap at everything. Right. Which
is why Kenth is already formulating a
theory as to how it is that we got here
and assuming that it's Sloop's fault.
that in between suplexing Homer Simpson
and maybe high-fiving me too high,
you've just ended up inconscious on the
floor. Uh, you have your infantries as
well. That third page has some important
character details. For instance, I
noticed that I've got 100 gem mules. 100
gem and two gem links. Nice. Where are
you looking, Rob? Show me where you're
looking. Page two 203.
Thank you. So, I'm guessing this is like
an oldie worldy style of currency
because gem mules and gem links
presumably also go into gems, gem
clusters, and gem stars. Yes. It doesn't
sound like we're very wealthy. No,
you're both pretty busted. I had to buy
your inventories with your with the uh
gem mules you had at character creation.
Um, you have inventories as well. Okay.
I've got my knife as we discussed.
Leather armor location body. Good to
know. That importantly, that means your
arms and legs are not covered by
leather. I see. Okay. I was like, you
know, where else is the armor going to
be? I see what you're saying. Like
specifically torso. Nice. Yeah, you got
it. Yeah. I've got one 5 m rope. Ah,
adventuring kit. Okay, here we go. Flint
and steel as expected. Water skin.
That's good to know. Is it full? Yes.
Okay, good. I've got a shield and I've
got a small pouch of crystal dust. A
pouch of crystal dust. Interesting.
Yeah, you you reach into the pouch
that's on your hip and uh you find like
it's almost like salt, but it glitters
with the iridescence of mother of pearl.
Um Emily, I would also ask, please don't
use the shield because I have forgotten
how shields work in this game and it
would really just save me a lot of
effort. Honestly, it would save us all a
lot of effort. Okay. Uh the shield is
now decorative. Yeah. I mean, if if
you're in a life or death situation, cuz
to be clear, this system can be pretty
lethal and also we're rolling purely
random encounters, so god knows what
you'll encounter. Do you feel free to
bring out the shield in an emergency,
but like it will involve me opening the
rule book in a way I simply don't want
to do. I mean, I'd suggest you use it as
a frisbee Captain America style, but
then your aim is crap. I really cannot
describe how bad uh sleep is at aiming.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. What does aiming
affecting? Like if I'm going to punch
somebody. No, just if I'm if I'm a slap
him, right? Aim not involved. Only if
you're throwing or ranged anything is
these slap hands. I can just imagine
going up to someone being like
Yeah, if you want to try and do that,
there are I think that could
I think there are some species in this
world that that we might respond well to
that actually. Yeah. Okay, let's play to
find out how long it takes me to slap
someone. Let's set a timer now. Yeah.
Okay, great. Okay, I am walking around
with a spear. Yeah. A bow and a water
skin. Well, tell you what. Tell you
what, Rob. Hang on.
Um, Quinc has just picked up a whole new
page of something. Yeah. Okay. Uh, Rob,
you can choose that. If you don't want
that flask to be full of water, it can
be full of Malmus, rusper, sto
No, that was just a noise. Um, how do
you spell it? That might be it. No, shut
up. Uh, it's not a Don't Don't do this
to me. I was just a noise I made. I
think that's it. I think those are your
options. Malmus, Ruser, Sto, or Rusb for
real. Only the best. Great. You don't
know what's in there. Uh, no. And Okay.
All right. Rusb. Uh, I've got the spear
in my hands and the rest in my pack. Can
I point out something that you
remembered as well? If you look at the
bottom left of that sheet you're looking
at now, you you'll learn a bit about
your parents.
Durig farmers. Great. Yes. Um, Sloop is
a is a daughter of Derig Farmers. And uh
Ken, yeah, mine are in scare quotes.
Make oils or or makes oils, it actually
says. So maybe I've only got one of the
one of the parents. Oh [ __ ] Yeah, maybe
grammatically speaking. Yeah. No, you're
right. Let's turn my grammar into um
cannon. This is world building. Yeah.
Great. Yeah. Your your one surviving
parent made oils. That's a real thing
from the Joe Run background table. Okay.
Yeah, sure. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I've
told everybody. They make oils. I I'll
also point out one thing I forgot to add
to your inventories around both of your
necks as you're sort of like picking
yourselves up and trying to remember
what happened or even who you are. You
both find um please write down in your
inventories the word chalisque. C h a l
i s k. This is a necklace that you are
both wearing that probably in terms of
heft resembles a dog tag. It is by far
the most expensive looking item that
either of you have. It's like fine metal
craftsmanship that is uh ornamented with
sort of like filigreed indentations in
in handsome looking shapes.
Approximately how many gem mules does it
look like as well? I also thought this
uh how many gems/ mules could we buy
with it? You couldn't possibly say
this is an antiques road show. Uh I just
don't want you to sell it. But if you
want to try and sell it, you absolutely
can. But I'm just going to say that your
characters have no idea how much it's
worth. First person we meet. High five.
Do you want to bite my shallots? High
five. Flattens them into the ground with
the strength of the role.
I got to be careful with those slappy
hands, man. Yeah. Then I'll show the
[ __ ] out of them. And then we uh we're
going to have an issue. We are. Yeah, I
can see some issues arising already. I
don't approve of this joke and I won't
stand for it. I'm human, by the way. We
missed that. Oh, you're human. Okay,
great. I'm human. which is I guess why I
look like a giant individual and also
cuz I'm fully stacked. Yes, I guess.
You're only giant according to um the
madra you're traveling with. Right.
Okay, cool. So, you two are just
familiarizing yourself with what's in
your packs and and looking each other
down and trying to piece things
together. It's a lot like you had too
much to drink last night. The
accompanying headache, the tightness
around the temples. Um, but rather than
just forgetting what happened last
night, you have forgotten almost
everything except some of the bare
essentials of your humanity. Um, at this
point, Miraality, please. Oh,
yeah. Wow. You made me look bigoted,
Rob. Well done. So, you are Madra and a
human traveling on a dusty road with the
scent of spices and a sort of like rich
lomy soil in a dusty sandy breeze that's
getting between your teeth and in your
armpits and in your pants. You hear a
voice behind you
saying, "Well, well, well." Um, I am now
going to show you a picture of the
figure that approaches you on the road
behind you. Please describe this for the
people at home.
The most authentic response from Emily.
Well, you're better off not knowing.
Really, I first off, I think the quality
of this art before you guys Okay. Yes.
Yeah. So, like I wouldn't have had such
a visceral reaction had the art been not
this beautiful. It's actually This is
one of the things that Skyrims with Joan
was praised for is Why are you laughing
Rob? This is the serious bit because I I
blinked and then it was still there.
Okay, please describe this creature for
the people at home. I imagine that this
person struggles to find spectacles. Um
they've got quite like sort of dainty
feet hands. uh to bipeedal. Rob, I think
I need to help you out here. Yeah. It's
a T-Rex body, not head, not tail. Yeah.
Instead of like a T-Rex head, it's got a
snail's head with eyes on stalks. Yes,
it does. And it doesn't have a tail. It
sort of just has like a bit you could
sit on like like a little butt pad. Uh
yeah, actually that is uh there's a name
for the butt pad. Yes, it's where the
saddle goes. That's a trid node.
Um, in fact, um, this this thing which
you're looking at, thriddles, um, are
commonly known to swear by declaring
quivering trid nodes. Um, anyway,
uh, I'm so glad that I added the trid
node in. I'm just going to leave this
piece of paper here for you guys to
enjoy. It looks like a plucked chicken
with eye stalks and kind of come hither
eyes. Yeah, they are a bit come hither.
They're they're soft eyes. They are.
Yeah. and and but the rest of it is
screaming what's the opposite of come
hither get to be get to be gone yeah not
today Satan um it's weird little chicken
feet are clawing its way down the dusty
road towards you it's about 20 ft away
and it has a small satchel like you
would expect from a mailman a little
leather satchel um and he says are you
two all right what are you doing could I
clarify first what what bit it's using
to speak with um okay you See that thing
under its eyes that looks kind of like a
ball bag?
Imagine that in its body. No, that just
specifically whole body. Okay, these
like turkey looking palps here. Imagine
they are flapping. That's what I was
afraid you were going to say. Is not a
word that that I'm enjoying. Listen, it
what I want to point out this thing is
speaking actually for a creature that is
visibly not human. Its language faculty
seems to be pretty great. That's fair.
Good on you. Yeah. Okay. So it says um
are you two all right? Um I think I just
go [ __ ]
great and I slowly sort of get to my
feet and do we know how we know each
other? No, I don't think you know each
other. I think I pull you up to your
feet as well. That's a generous gesture.
It is effortless. He weighs as much as
like a sacrif accidentally throw him
into the air. Yeah. Okay, great. It says
the the the creature, which we will
refer to by uh by its species name, a
thriddle um approaches and says, "Last
time I saw you, you barely set off from
the bar. Now you look out of sorts." Um
it's getting closer and closer and
closer. Like it's like 10 ft away, 9 ft,
8 ft. There its body language is weirdly
soothing. Um it's like it doesn't have
seemingly a bone of hostility in its
body even though it's gross looking. I'm
not confident it has any bones at all.
That is No, look. It looks like it might
move around with fluid. It totally has
bones. Rob, don't be unnecessarily mean
to the thr. It definitely has bones from
the neck down. Yeah.
Yeah. And then it's all palp. Those eyes
are massive. I hadn't really considered
how disgusting those eyes were. Okay.
Um, the eyes both like blink heavily.
Every time it blinks, the eyes make like
a wet slapping sound. Okay. So Kenth is
partway through like taking the stopper
out of his flask and trying to sniff
whatever's in his water skin to It
smells like It smells like a kind of
bananery beer. This is the rusper. Yeah.
Okay. Well, but it's still full. Yes.
This still leaves me with questions as
to how it is we got here because I like
to think that instinctively this
situation is not wholly unfamiliar to
Kenth. Mhm. I don't know. I mean, I I
think Kenneth is going to ask the
obvious question, which is, "What?"
Great. Um, the thriddle takes another
couple of steps towards you, flack flat
with its big chicken feet, and says,
"Um, are you okay? How many fingers am I
holding up?" It holds up a hand, which I
will point out looks, it's the only
humanl looking part of it. Oh, no. Um,
yeah, holding up three fingers. I think
I say three. My education's pretty high.
Thank goodness. The thr years of
schooling paying off. Well, that's a
good start. Why were you on the ground?
Were you attacked?
I don't know. You You don't know either?
No.
Where did you meet us? Where are we? Who
are you? I met you at the in
Clip. Don't you remember where the Jers
and Husins were playing?
These words seem vaguely familiar to me.
Okay. Well, that's good. Um, suppose we
don't remember the the where we were.
Klep case is a term of endearment. You
know, the
inp and and what's your name, Klep? I'm
Sromo. You don't remember this at all.
Srogmo.
The the thrill sort of like begins
stroking its palps with its left hand in
thought and goes, you don't remember
anything.
No. Oh my goodness. Oh my god. Oh my
god. Oh my god. This This could be This
is the best day. Thriddles love nothing
more than explaining things. Hang on.
Hang on. Oh my goodness. He reaches into
his pouch and produces a small like a a
cigarsized white grub with some sharp
teeth. He also produces a pipe with with
a bowl where you would put tobacco, but
it has a little spike in it. He skewers
the grub on the spike and it immediately
begins releasing a kind of foaming acid
looking gas. He begins inhaling deeply
on the pipe and says, "Hang on, hang on,
hang on. Let me get high. Hang
on." Takes a deep
inhalation or gives a hit. He looks at
you and says,
"Madra, and suddenly not humans can't
enjoy the Oh, [ __ ] Rob, are you going
to make me look this up? God damn it.
The pages turn. Come on." Oh, it's right
there in my notes. can't enjoy gigits.
Gigits. Uh, he says you're well, but
you're welcome to try, my friend. Hang
on, hang on, hang on. What? From my 16
social stat, can I tell if I've asked
this question before? Um, give me give
me the first ice roll. So, it's classic
D and D 3d6. 3D 3d6. Okay, 16 social is
pretty high.
Uh, that's a 10. That's under. Um, you
don't think you've ever asked that
question before in your life? It's just
known that obvious madress don't like
giggots and actually you've kind of
disgraced yourself by making yourself
look kind of embarrassing by asking for
it but he is offering it to you. To be
fair that's not the most embarrassing
thing that's happened to me today. No, I
think discretion better part of valor on
this one. I'm going to I mean appealing
as it looks. Okay. Um the the grub is in
its death throws as he begins taking
another hungry gulp. Is is there a noise
from what? The grub.
No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Let's
get out of the road. and he points to a
small stone. Um, and he sits down in
under the sun, crosses his chicken legs
or like not crosses, but like folds them
like a like a like a like a bird would.
Okay. Okay. What would you like to know?
Do you know where you are? No. You're on
chun. You're an ishin and you're well,
you hope to and points at um Rob. Oh,
you hope to be a kaji, but we'll see if
anything comes of that.
You notice you notice that Kent's hair
is like the brown sort of like hair
which is somewhat tied back in a
ponytail. Kent's hair is is starting to
raise like he's rubbed a balloon full of
static electricity. What's happen mate?
I'm going super saiyan. Yeah, I could
tell you everything, but it would be
great if you could discharge your ish
show. Ken, excuse me, mate. It's past
time you discharged. Okay, let's assume
that I don't know anything.
Well, you can't go from there. You're
the explanations. You could zaman.
Excuse me. I I look I'm I don't want to
be rude. I really don't. You're being My
pronouns are he, him. Okay. Okay, great.
That's a start. Yeah. Polite question.
Pronouns. Pronouns. She her. She her.
Okay. You're
he you told me this last night. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. Okay. Great. He him. Anyway,
you need to discharge, man. Otherwise,
you're going to zap one of us. Let's
again take it from the top. I can't tell
you how to do it. You're the madra.
Just I start I'm going to take about 10
steps backwards
back into the road obviously and I'm I
don't know. I think I'm probably now
going to notice for the first time that
my hair is standing up. You can you can
feel like a sort
of it's not actually described at the
Joe Run book how this feels, Kenth. Um
but if I was to describe to you, you can
feel an energy buildup in your body.
Let's do some well building you and me
together, Rob. Okay. If you can imagine
kind of imagine a sort of static charge
but a bit gloopier, a bit more sort of
organic. Where do you think it would
collect in Kent's body? Where can you
feel it? I think it sort of starts in
the quads. Interesting. And then kind of
oddly it seems to be really wanting to
reach down into the ground. Okay. And
then like I sort then I get a sort of
tingling in my stomach and then it's
sort of rising up. Okay. Whereas I've
actually been feeling it for a while but
then it's like it's almost like it's
coming from the ground up but it's
trying to pull me down into the earth.
Okay. Um you need to expel that. How do
you go about doing it?
Uh okay. Kenth is gonna experimentally
take like a sort of Sailor Moon stance
and point one finger at the
[Laughter]
sky and then sort of point one finger at
the Earth. Okay, wait. Point one finger
at the sky. Give me Ooh, let's do our
first skill check. Please give me a d20
roll. Okay, I
say and Ken says and roll
five. Nothing happens. Nothing happens.
Okay, that that's fine. That was the
first of of several experimental
gestures that I've got planned. And the
next one is I sort of slap my thighs and
then point to the ground with both
fingers. I'm going to check my slap
hands. Are you just No. Are you just
doing poses? I'm trying to discharge.
Okay. It Okay, but you don't mind. And
actually, Ken is going to turn around
and look the other way. And he's going
to say, "Look the other way." Can't do
it when people are watching. Apparently
not. The triddle goes, "Okay, it's
perfectly natural." Uh, weirdly, he
takes Sloop's hand and begins guiding
her like over a small
hillock. Okay, I with this bizarre sheet
to go off, I think what I'm going to do
is sit cross-legged and try and listen
to what the hell this is. Great. Oh, I
love that. Okay. You know what you
notice as you sit cross-legged is you
become dimly aware of a wind under the
wind. something more subtle
and elemental. You feel it drifting over
you
like like fine rain almost but rain
falling upwards from the earth below
you. You can feel the tiniest pin pricks
of energy but what might feel almost
pleasant if you were meditating in
another state. You can feel those little
tiny smaller than droplets of energy
falling up into your stomach and
building and growing and it's causing
pain and discomfort. And then you're
you're about to burst. I'm going to give
you one more shot of this. I'm just
going
to release and let the wind take it all
off me. Like like if a dog shakes off a
load of moisture but without the shake.
just like letting the wind sort of just
draw it all off me. Okay, great. Give me
a d20 roll. Let's see. That's a 12.
That's a 12. Okay, you let the wind take
it off you and you feel with your Are
your eyes closed? Yeah. As your eyes are
closed, you feel a great lessening in
your guts. You feel the pain lift and
you feel like like almost like a garden
hose full of water that's had a tear cut
in it somewhere. Um, and you just feel a
tremendous release that feels honestly
quite good. When you open your eyes, you
can see that almost in a perfect ring
around you at a distance of about 2 ft,
um, there is a black line that on closer
investigation reveals you have fully
charred the ground you. Hell yes. I'm
glad this NY man took me behind the
hook. Um, Rob, would you like your
secret fourth character sheet?
Uh, yes. Lay it on me. This is a page of
your Eshow skills, but um, like you're
on [ __ ] dimension 20, I have made you
cards for all of your spells. What the
living [ __ ] is this? Here. Here.
Wow, that's a lot of cards.
Oh, there some of them are doublesided
as well. Um, I'm a bit jealous that I
don't have cards, but I'm also like,
"Oh, you got so much work to do to read
on."
Okay. Okay. This is I'm This is going to
take a minute to process. Several
minutes. Okay. We'll give you some time
to read that later, but for now. Okay.
So, I mean, startled slightly scorched.
I think you No, you didn't scorch
yourself. You released it perfectly in a
weird circle and burned the ground. And
uh but no, you're you're feeling much
much emptied now. Ken is pretty annoyed.
He Kenth has had hangovers before and
they've never been like this. And
opening his eyes and noticing that Sloop
and Srogmo are both [ __ ] gone. He's
he has a momentary panic. I think you
noticed peeking up over the hill looking
at you. Well, thank you for that
explanation, uh, Sro, that was very
helpful. Um, I don't know what just
happened. Oh, well, it's quite simple
here. It's all safe now. Here, come
along, Sloop. Oh, yeah. Is it safe? When
When is that going to happen to me
again? Am I going to catch fire? No. No.
Oh, this is this is so wonderful. I get
to teach you everything. Oh, yeah.
Please help me out here, mate. Sit down,
friend. Let go of my hand. Oh. Oh, of
course. Thank you. You only need ask you
want me to let go of your hand. Only if
you want her to catch fire. And I don't
think that's going to happen because as
I remember from the pub last night, I
think you two said you were
cousins. It was either cousins or
lovers. One of the two. Well, it's
cousins. And you don't remember? I don't
remember. I think I'd remember. Oh,
well, look, I look, you two talking a
lot of stuff about wanting to become
Dren. So, here, look, sit down. I'll
explain everything. Oh my god. Oh my
god. What is your family like if you
don't remember the difference? I'm a
mathematician primarily. Oh, that
explains everything. Okay. Well, okay.
So, let's We cut to him sat on a rock
with you two sat cross-legged taking
sips of your rusper and water. Uh, how
is it? It's not great. Here's something
I'll tell you about Skyrims of Jarun.
This RPG focuses a lot on food and it
exclusively describes everything as
tasting kind of bad.
Um, we'll see about that. Can you see my
cooking stats? H. Um, yeah. So, you're
drinking the Ruser. It's kind of like a
weak ale, but also brings you some
comfort and gets you kind of puzzled,
you know, on on booze. Sweet. I would
encourage you to to ask Sromo the
Thriddle some questions. Um, and no
nothing too dumb. This is your
introduction to the world before he goes
away. Okay. He's He has He's got Captain
Exposition. Yeah, he's Captain
Exposition and also he's a mathematician
and he's in demand. So, am I magic? Um,
he am I magic? He frowns and says, "I
know not of this magic you speak of, but
I know that you can command the Isho
energies of Joe Run as a Madra as
opposed to," he gestures at Sloop, a
human. Madra have always been able to
connect to the Ishow energies. In fact,
as I remember you boasting while you got
completely pissed last night, you're
actually a master of all seven of the
Eshow
energies. Shall Eba do Gobi, Desty,
Lantra, and of course,
Trana. Um, he gestures up at the moons
of which you could see three when you
woke up, but there are like a couple of
different ones. Now he goes, "The Jun
energies relate to the seven moons."
Cool. Different people can control
different moons. Jorun energies. Can I
do any of those moons? No. You're kind
of No, not real. Not very good at it.
No. But you probably, like most humans,
you will have one of the seven moons you
can connect to. Oh. Do Do you know which
one? No. Okay.
Which moons? You said there were three
moons we could see, right? So they're
seasonal powers is what you're saying.
Uh no, but there is a seasonal element
to it. Have you felt the issue weather
yet? Mate, again, assuming you're
starting from zero.
People who are very sympathetic to the
energies of Joe Runes, such as yourself,
absorbed, tucks his collar a little bit.
Sort of proud of that. Yeah. Nice. Um
yeah, he's you should be proud. Not many
madra, certainly not from the
countryside such as yourself, master
Isho energies on their way to becoming
great kajji or masters of Ish isho
energy. But of course, being a commander
of Isho energies means you bear great
responsibilities. You will be expected
to display your null everywhere you go
and also face prejudice maybe.
Okay, what kind of prejudice and what's
a null and am I exposing it at the
moment?
Um, I like to know these things. An all
is your orb. Here again.
More questions than answers, mate. I'm
sure you'll figure it out eventually.
Perhaps the more important thing is to
remind you that you two are both
Talther. Is that ringing any bells? No.
Okay. Well, he uh Come with me. He takes
you up to the top of a nearby hill. No,
he tries to take your hand again and I
just sort of move it out the way. Okay,
I take his He goes to take his hand.
He's about the same height as Kenneth.
Um he takes you by the hand and leads
you to the crest of It takes a couple of
minutes. You crest a hill and you can
see a great city beyond of
about 50,000 60,000 people. The city you
see is imagine something kind of like
adobe sort of like mud mud and sandstone
houses. If it was to resemble a
particular style in our planet, it might
resemble sort of Native American cities.
You can see a lot of chimneys steaming
implying cookware. Um it also has not
great sewage. So, as the wind changes,
you get blasted by the most unbelievable
smell of feces and also spices and smoke
and burning ash. It is though somewhat
magnificent. I think in character both
of you are quite impressed. This is
Ardoth, capital of Beroth. You two are
from the You okay there, Rob? I'm just I
don't know which to write down and which
I'm not going to write them down. I I'm
going to make it a character element
that I don't remember anything. Uh, do I
have capital low social skills? Do you
want a map? Yes. Yes. Yes. I want a map.
There you go. A map.
I can't see anything on this map that
resembles any of the words he just said.
No. I think Well, Beroth, right? Ard is
there in in that. There's Arth and all
of this is kind of Beroth. Okay. Were we
going to Ardoth or were we like some
some lizard level instinct in Kenth is
causing him to ask this question
nervously. Were we going to Arth were we
leaving it? And were we leaving in a
hurry? Uh oh. Well, you were leaving in
a hurry. Yes. Why? Well, you said you
had a job down at the docks. That's
where this road leads. It leads down to
the port where all of the ships deliver
all of the trade goods to Ardoth. But
you two look here. Look. He reaches up
and reaches his nasty little hands up
towards your necks. And he takes in
pinching between thumb and forefinger
the two little metal necklaces and says,
"These are why you went to Ardoth." Oh
god, I love explaining things. These
things are your chalisks. Oh, let me
explain. You two are talther. You two
are both from the countryside and you
are here. You were Toth and you are
seeking to join the Dren of Berdoth. You
have traveled to Ardoth. You received
your chalisk and oh well if you were to
become Dren one day, imagine you could
own land. You could collect kletch. You
could join a kim. You could even request
the possession of the dark age chief
among the khedt. Well, that would be
something. Oh, it would. Yeah. Most
people dream of becoming Dren, but you
two look super lost. So, let me explain.
What must one do? As citizens of Berdo,
the goal for many, many people,
including sort of bums from the
countryside such as yourself, is to
become Dren. So, you travel to Ardoth to
visit the hall of Dren. Think of Dren as
like the upper class of society, okay?
They make decisions in a Kim. They
collect kletch, which is the money that
people owe the owe the sort of royalty.
I I I bring a handful of gem mules out
of my pocket. Is this is this clutch
then? Well, no, that's that's just
that's just gem. Oh, well, hang on.
There's slang for it. Of course. No,
that's just ule which is which is short.
No, u is short for gem. Have we just met
like a Gen Z snail guy who like talking
like that's clutch, man. Like is this
clutch? I appreciate honestly, Emily,
that in this game, not only does it have
the most intense glossery you've ever
read, but also there's slang for other
words. I'll also point out I'm giving
myself the easy mode of GMing, which is
I'm pronouncing everything phonetically,
but actually there's a sub glossery that
tells you why you might be
mispronouncing words in the gery. Oh my
god. Anyway, yeah, he goes, that's u uh
which people say instead of gemule 100
gemules are more or less worth one gem.
More or less. More or less. And they're
called gem mules. And you for short call
them eels. Yes, that's definitely the
most practical term that No, wait. I got
that wrong. 100 gem make a gem link. 100
gem. These are coins. We call them what?
Links. Links. Links. Links. Links.
Links. Yeah. And then 100 gem links
makes a gem. I'm so glad we met you, uh,
person. I'm so glad I met you. I love
explaining things. This is so wonderful.
Oh, you so know so much about currency.
Oh, my quivering trit nodes. Imagine how
good it is to get to thriddle explain
such things to yourself all day. We're
going to be here all day. This is going
to be wonderful. Yeah. I mean, are you
are you going to stick around? Are you
in the in the market to be a
a Scott? He looks at He looks at you. He
He doesn't have much of an ability to
like shake facial expressions because,
as you can see, he has two pals and two
eye dogs. He looks at you like you just
insulted the [ __ ] out of him. You can
even read that on his face. No, I will
not be your mascot. I'm a great
mathematician and I'm doing this out of
the goodness of my heart and because I
love explaining things and I appreciate
it and and it it and you're doing you're
doing great. You're not a Dren yet. He
points a finger into your chest which
because you're tiny shoves you a a great
distance. So anyway, I was explaining
you were Toth, not Dren. Toth nobodyies
from the countryside and beholden to
Dren. You understand? Yeah. Yes. You
wanted to be Dren, as many do. So you
traveled to Ardoth where you went to the
hall of Dren and declared your interests
in becoming Dren. That means you are no
longer Toth. You are Talther. Ah, okay.
And and that's what this means. Hold up
the necklace. Uh, the chalisk means that
you are talther. Yes. In order to become
Dren, you will need to find citizens of
Berdock to stamp your
chalisk with their name. Sort of like a
signature, which has its own name, but I
can't bother to look it up now. If you
get enough people to stamp your chalisk,
each one will give you five
points. Now, you as a human need to
reach 50 points, sloop. Okay, but as a
Madra, you must reach 70 points.
Also, you need to pay two gems as a fee
to become Dren. And even then, there is
only a 75% chance of getting in. You can
get additional signatures and each one
will like increase it by 2% per point
above the number that you need. Hang on,
hang on, hang on. How many points did
you need again? 50. So, am I being
discriminated against? Well, kind of.
But it's also sort of fair because Madra
are are very frightening. Like you have
the ability to control his I look down
on myself. I look down at him. Yeah. No,
he looks like nothing. But he says, "Let
let me here." He goes to take your hand
again. Do you let him? Yeah. Yeah. He
takes your hand and and says, "You are
not only an issue. You have such a
mastery of color. You can control the
power of all seven moons. Were you to
become a kajji, that's like a trained
master of your show, you would be much
in demand. You would have the respect of
not just all Madra, but all citizens of
Berdoth, certainly all Toth. I expect
that you were traveling together, not
just because you're cousins, but because
as you as an Ishkin, you told me you
were an Iskin sloop, a scientist. A
scientist like me primarily myself. You
primarily focused on outdoor issues here
on your character sheet. Thank you. And
you were able to take care of your
cousin lover
just cuz
your cousin number Kenth because for you
as an Iskin, it's very makes you much
safer to travel with a Matra, especially
one with a mastery of Isho. And for you,
I assumed she was my bodyguard. Yep. So
did I. Well, yeah. No, also she can keep
you safe from like times basic people
who are able to unweave your orbs and
bolts can we wouldn't want. And also on
days on days when the ishue weather is
just really really thin, you will be
unable to have as much energy to to
attack people with. And how how was the
issue weather yesterday and today? It's
been fine.
Okay. Usually like one day in 30 you
become kind of useless. So it's there
are also days there are I is Isho storms
which I actually think are pretty cool.
He takes a pull on his
pipe cuz in days of Isho storms you
become kind of a little psychopath. In
fact all Madra do a lot of people stay
indoors. Honestly I think this is a
pretty cool I think this is a pretty
cool part of the system that like you're
a wizard but there are days when you
simply aren't and also days where you go
super science. Hell yes. And you roll
every day. We we're going to be rolling
to see what the weather is like.
Amazing. Um, yeah, I have a plus 30 to
Isho weather. Yes. Ah, yes. I feel sort
of super connected to the issue weather.
What's that about? Yeah. No, you're not
connected at all. But you can read the
signs on a scientific basis. I see. So,
you may be able to read the weather
that's coming. Kind of like a weatherman
or weather person. What's the
non-gendered word for weatherman?
Weatherist. Meteorologist. You're uh
There we
go. You're like a meteorologist. He can
sort of feel the weather in his bones
right now, but you might be able to read
it, you know, days or weeks into the
future. Sort of means you work well
together. Cool. Okay. Science and magic.
Cool. I kind of very dubiously go for a
high five.
Uh, can I roll, please? Yes. Roll. Slap
hands. Let's go. So, that's going to be
a D20.
Jesus. I don't really have a target
number, but ask me your character sheet.
We'll just call this a I don't know
which character sheet to pass you.
That's three. How have you not given us
binders? That would We could do that
next time. Okay, hang on. Slap hands.
Ah, damn. Just give me a roll, Emily.
That's a 10. That's a 10 with your minus
three implying low numbers are good.
Yeah. What do you want to happen? I
think I just want it to sound really
cool. Oh, sick. Yeah. You uh uh
priority, you lift up your hand and this
is whapped incredibly hard by Sloop. Um
and it makes a loud clapping sound. I do
finger guns to cover up how I wse. Uh,
yeah. A weird thing happens as you do
finger guns. Oh, no.
No. You just real You look at your hand
and you think, "How do you know the
shape of a gun?" Yes, I thought that,
too. This is visibly a medieval world.
And then you realize you have seen that
shape before as you look at your hand.
Yeah. I kind of like instinctively blow
the smoke off my finger. That doesn't
feel right. But definitely the gun shape
does. There might be things that are
shaped like guns in the world of Joe.
Okay. Then experimentally I kind of like
holster both of my finger guns. Uh yeah.
Sour goes so
cool. Um he says, "Well, that's about
the size of it, I think." And jumps off
his Wait, wait, wait, wait. Um is your
kind discriminated against? I'm sorry.
I'm sorry about the mascot crack. Yeah,
that was super rude and that was not
cool. You know, I One of the reasons I
think you're traveling with an Ikian is
because she'll know way more about
etiquette than you. That's fair. Cuz
there's like [ __ ] loads of races in
this world. Should I list them all? Uh,
yes. Just the intelligent races. Hang
on. You ready? Who decides? Uh, well,
oh, actually, that's going to Yeah,
that's an interesting question. It's
probably a debate like scientists like
me and her and he points at Luke. Yeah.
All right, I'll stay out of it, shall I?
Yeah, I'll just set fire to things,
shall I? Dude, it's a whole thing
deciding what races are quote
intelligent versus quote unintelligent.
But also, some of them are like bugs and
stuff. So, uh, yeah, in terms of
intelligent races whose etiquette, um,
Sloop may or may not know about,
there's, of course, the Acubon and the
Saloo and the Blount, the Bord of
course, and the Branth, the Clich,
Scaramas, Kastin, Cud, Krugerg, Madra,
that's you, Ramian, stay the [ __ ] away
from them. Shanththers, uh, yeah,
they're cool. Uh, Thyven, Thriddle, and
Waffin, they all have their own language
and [ __ ] It's super intense.
Anyway, yeah, thrills are pretty
popular. I can see why, mate. Yeah,
honestly, we go for a high five. Oh,
yeah. He high fives, but it makes a sort
of wet slapping sound. Um, he goes,
"Nice." And takes a big pull on his
pipe. Um, do you know what? I will have
a I I'm just going to try a tiny bit.
You try it. It sounds like you're Have
you You don't vape in real life, do you?
Yeah. Okay. I was going to compare it to
like the taste of a vape coil with no
juice in it for the people who know, but
um Yeah. No, it sounds like you're
smoking a bug. It's
It is not it is actually like it's not
even neutral like it's it's like fully
disgusting and you you want you dry
heave a little bit. I regret it
immediately. Okay, great. Um that uh
Salo goes
idiot then takes the takes the pipe
back. Um he says yes we riddles are
master linguists and we're super good at
mathematics. So he he winks one of his
ice talks at sloop and says I wink back.
You wink back. Great. Uh, he winks back
again. Um, I wink my other eye. He winks
his other eye and then I blink. He says,
"We can't sit around having fun all day.
I have mathematics to do elsewhere."
Wait, Zaro. Zaro, where should we go
next?
Well, like cracks his back, which for a
weird T-Rex chicken looking thing looks
super weird. Um, but he says, "Last I
heard you were on your way to the port
down this road. It's sort of outside of
the city and down this uh down this
ramp. Probably about 30 minutes. You
said you had a job to do and someone was
waiting for you in the port. Oh [ __ ]
Yeah. You honestly kind of in a hurry.
So imagine my luck that I got the chance
to talk to you for 45 minutes. You're
definitely more in a hurry now.
Okay. I I pull my gem mules out of my
pocket again and just kind of show them
to him and say, "Is this enough to live
on?"
Um, he looks at Oh, I forgot you both
have some derigs. Um, oh yeah, how could
you forget? How could you forget? I was
wondering when you were going to bring
up the fact that we needed Derigs. Well,
you're you're Emily, don't be mean.
You're a derig. Your parents are what?
Oh, yeah. Sorry, they're derig farmers.
I just thought that Derig was a place
and farmers from Derig. No, in fact, I
have a picture of a Derig. Oh my
goodness. Um, you know, it's an
exploitative thing. No, although it
does. Everything in this game isn't
horny, but looks like a kid. Um, uh,
yeah. No, you have about probably about
20 to 30 of those in your pouch. What on
earth is that? God. Okay. It looks like
that that giant flower that smells
really bad that blooms of course
flowers. Yeah. Yeah. Um, they're but
they're like the size of carrots or
potatoes. It looks like an Aubry
Birdsley illustration of a parnip
basically. Um, you have a few maybe days
worth of derigs in your pack. Okay. When
you say days worth in the sense that
they're edible. Salo goes, "Yes, you
have some food." Yeah. Gosh, you you two
are in trouble if you don't get your
memories back. He looks slightly
concerned like he's worried about you
for a moment and then says, "But uh I I
honestly can't be talking to you all the
time." Is that enough to live off?
Basically, kind of not really. I mean,
most people just go out into the
countryside and forage, which is
dangerous, but you two are from the
countryside, so you're probably all
right at it, or you wouldn't be here.
Are we going to get money from this job,
or is this just about getting a stamp on
our chalice on our chalice? I love that
Emily knew that. I I by the end of these
sessions, I want you guys to be like
super oay with these words. I think this
was about money. It's kind of hard to
get stamps from people and be respected
citizens when you're totally busted
because don't have any equipment. I
mean, what are you going to do? Go cast
bad isho disha at them. Don't make me
laugh. Don't No, don't make me laugh
either. Um in case the fire comes out
again. Do you recognize this symbol? And
I do finger guns at him. Um he looks at
the guns and goes, "No." Okay. And puts
on a satchel um and begins hoofing down
the road.
Thank you, mate. He says, he says, "I
wish you luck. I wish you so much luck.
Thank you so much for letting me explain
all that." Really, honestly, quite
literally, cannon. The drills love
explaining things. Um, and he disappears
uh over the hill. Um, heading in on a
slightly different side path to you. You
are left alone. It's like not super
oppressively hot, but um kind of
unpleasant. Like if you're if you sit
still, you don't sweat, but if you're
marching, you basically will. What time
of day is it? Probably about 2:00 in the
afternoon, judging by the placement of
the moons and the sun. And there is a
sun. Yeah. Well, I guess. Yeah. No, just
one sun. Just one sun, but seven moons.
But the seven moons are orbiting
constantly, so like some of them you can
see in the day, some of them you can't.
And they're all different colors. It's
really cool. Anyway, you like the moons?
I like the moons. I like there are seven
moons. I like that people have moon
juice energy. Like it's it's bonkers and
it's only going to get more bonkers.
Love it. Um yeah. No, there's lots of
honestly there's tons I love about the
world building as well. One of the
reasons that it reviewed really well is
that um it's all all the world building
is very well thought through like for
all these different crazy races. It's
like well what okay on the map these
people live next to these people. Well,
what would happen then? And like nuts as
it is, there's some there's a level of
concretenness to all of it that I really
appreciate. Okay, but yes, you guys are
on the roads. There's the there's the
road back to town, which you definitely
could take if you wanted to like go back
there and have some random town
encounters, but you were told that you
were h before you lost your memory. You
were hurrying to the port, which is the
other way. Do you I forgot to ask him.
Do you think there's What do you think
the odds are that we're secretly like
royalty or, you know, princes in
disguise or something? Oh, uh, low. I'm
going to assume we are just in case.
Okay.
I mean, job. Yes. Job. My lege. Wait.
No. No. We're not going to. No. No.
Let's Let's get Are we pretending just
between us or are you pretending? You
know, I just It's just a bit of a
confidence boost for me. I'll be honest.
Okay. Then I will treat you the same as
I always have, which I don't know
because I can't remember. But then let's
start fresh. And I offer my hand.
Cousins. And I We'll stick with cousins,
shall we? Snap. I mean, you slap the
hell out of his hand.
Okay, we've just had 5 minutes away from
the table. I want to do two things.
First off, I want to check in. How
confusing is this to you?
10 out of 10. 10 out of 10. like like 10
out of 10 like it's the perfect amount
of confusing. Or are you genuinely
completely lost?
I feel like I'm on one of those river
rapid rides and I'm like, "Whoa, what
was that?" And I'm like, "But this is
still fun." You know what I mean? Okay,
that works. I'm just I'm just floating
down the stream of all the words you
just threw at us that I've got no idea.
I can't You're like, "Oh, they're this
person that not called like Glob or
something. They're called a schlib and a
bishm." It it it's not giving you crap
names for everything. These are full
names. Rob, how you doing? I feel better
that we have an objective. And I
actually feel kind of better that, you
know, as tempting as it is to wonder if
we are royalty in disguise, I kind of
feel better that we're kind of just
crappy like gig gig economy survivors.
That feels like even if we don't
understand this world, it's probably
we're not it's the world is probably not
going to be like imminently destroyed
just because we don't understand it.
Right. Right. Well, I'm Buck Rogers into
this and now everyone's counting on us.
Yeah. The reason Well, first off, two
things. The thing of becoming Dren and
you role playing Taur who want to become
Dren is the campaign frame default for
Skyrim to Jarun. is assumed that your
adventure in this world is you are
impoverished people trying to become
nobles by going on this big quest. So
that's not something I invent invented.
That's real. The reason I had you two
wake up as amnesiac protagonists is
because the world is so I mean you've
seen what it's like. It's like so
detailed and hairy that if you'd gone
away and learned it all and then come
back, I think this podcast would have
sounded just demented because our so I
needed you to be amnesiac so you could
go through this with our audience and
ask the questions or you know that they
have. All that said, do you now want to
take a couple minutes to figure out who
your characters are in terms of a role
playing Yeah. thing?
I mean, okay, I'm I'm just going by what
I'm good at. There's an entire page of
what it calls role- playinging skills,
which is kind of it's handy. Um, which I
they're actually Yeah. Okay. They're
skills in the world rather than your
skill at role playing. Although I like
to think that Ken is probably pretty
good liar as well. His by far his best
skills at anything is concealing himself
and cooking. And so a I think his heart
probably lifted a little bit when he saw
the goth parnips in your bag because he
probably he probably like recognizes
ingredients more than anything else and
that sort of made it his mouth water
slightly and his fingers tingle slightly
like you know I don't know he's probably
hungry for a start although I think we
can probably leave that. I love this. I
think in this like more tra classically
kind of post Iron Age fantasy I imagine
everyone's pretty hungry all the time.
Mhm. Mhm. Yeah, fair. I have no cultural
skills, but practical knowledge is okay.
But again, by far my best ones are floor
recognition and fauna recognition. So, I
think I'm a chef survivor who's good at
hiding. I think that Ken spent when I
was building that character just because
I just want to give you tons of points
in dices, which are the e show
abilities. Um, that's where almost all
of your skills went. Got a lot of them.
Um, I think Kent's background really
probably had to be that you learned
about or practiced diches almost in like
a hermitage in the country. So surviving
on foraging and cooking and mostly just
practicing your diches, which is why you
have no idea how what etiquette works
with absolutely any species at all. But
it feels like I've also got a secret.
And for this, I'm entirely going off the
fact that my parents occupation is
written on my sheet in quotation marks,
makes oils, which sounds like the most
suspicious thing you could possibly say
when people ask what your parents do.
So, there's definitely there was
probably something going on at this
commune that I don't know, but I can
feel in my gut that I'm keeping
something back. Perhaps even
from what? Sloop from my beloved cousin
Sloop. Great. and then Sloop. How you
feeling, Emily? Uh, first of all, I want
to just ask the question is we're
different species,
but we're cousins. Oh, yeah. Yeah,
that's what that's what Sro uh said. But
again, he was non-specific in a way that
was a bit unnerving. So, maybe we can't
count on being cousins after all.
Honestly, when I was making the the
cousins thing, I forgot that you two are
completely different species. Um, but
yeah, who can say? Canon. No, maybe you
could be you could be cousins in
inverted commas. There's a whole thing
um in Skyrims which is about uh the
clades which are like you might grow up
in kind of like not an orphanage exactly
but like your parents are like that
we'll put this child in the clades and
the clades are like big family groups of
kids and parents. Everyone co-parents.
All the kids grow up together in this
big f sort of not artificial but a
family unit that centers around one
thing like masonry or farming. Um, so
you might well have like family bonds
that aren't necessarily blood related.
Okay. Yeah, that makes sense. But in
terms of you being an Iskian, a
scientist, you're more like a hedge
scientist who's like mostly works
outside and learns by talking and Yeah,
that makes sense. Um, I feel like also
[ __ ] hot with a knife. [ __ ] with a
knife. Yeah, like outdoor science.
Does So everybody wants to be Dren in
this world. Yeah, in the same Yeah, it's
just you become uh maybe not everybody.
Okay. Um but like ambitious people,
sure. It's the equivalent of like I
don't know if in like Imperial China of
wanting your your children to get a job
in the government civil service. Okay.
Okay. Um and I think the best way that
Sloop is going to get that is not as a
like as herself, right? as like a as
like an outdoor scientist, but is by
linking herself to someone who needs
once a month needs some sort of general
protection from someone who's got the
head screwed on and who can kind of
carry her to Dan status. Yeah, I think
that works totally well. I mean, clearly
we've got a super talented Madra here
who able to manage is show energies, but
also a Madra traveling by themselves,
that's probably not great. Having a
buddy seems good. Exactly. Listen, like
nobody's carrying anybody. We'll you
know I mean I could carry you.
That has become very clear there's going
to be it would be sort of trivial
actually. Yeah. When there's two sets of
footprints along the beach and then
there's one when I'm carrying you
they're staggering quite a bit and going
a lot deeper. It's just like a circle.
We like fall over and roll along. Maybe
that's what we were trying to do. We
both fell down and hit our head
simultaneously. Now you carry me.
Woohoo! Oh lord. Okay. Well, I mean, it
we make sense as a pairing, right? And
that that I'm going to say that that
high five felt pretty natural. Yeah.
Pretty slapul.
So, have you got rough characters? Do
you want to take more time to like
discuss who you are as people?
I think that Kenth is
probably slightly overconfident and
probably a bit has been someone who's
probably a bit too impressed with their
issue ability, but has got is accustomed
to getting in trouble because of his
lack of knowledge of the real world. So,
oddly, I think he's going off like a
lack of anxiety about the fact that he
doesn't understand what the [ __ ] is
going on. Okay, great. I think Sloop is
watchful and
patient. Um, you are definitely paired
up with a loose cannon. Yeah, growing up
in a farming community, there's a lot
going on and there's a lot to watch.
There's a lot to to notice and to
manage. And so, Sleep is quite good at
etiquette, actually. Um, or maybe not
quite good, but has has skills in that
arena. Familiar. Yeah, it it makes me
laugh that um Kenneth is familiar with
dance. That's uh that's your skills.
There's a dance. Where does that come
up? Oh, I'm not bad at bureaucracy
either. That actually doesn't make any
sense. I
also I have an 80 in thombo. Oh, which
is animal handling. You're much better
at thombo than I am. Oh, have you got a
have you got a I've I've got a 65 in
song, but I cannot I cannot read these
uh grids at all. No, don't worry about
it. Don't worry about it. I look for
where the pink is, and then that's
you're roughly good at that thing. I've
also got a 65 in PBA, but I like to
think that I think I'm about 150 in PBA.
I can't even remember what PBA is. Also,
I just want to highlight under city
skills, bargain, bribe, fast talk, no
skills there. getting
around, which is I love that getting
around is a skill. Getting around. And
oddly, I don't have any points in hide,
even though I have a ton in concealed
self. It does imply that you're
somewhere else on a different piece of
paper. You can like ghillie suit your
way into the dust, but in a city, you're
just very obvious. Yeah, sounds. Yeah.
Okay. All right. Yep. And I'm
consistently pretty good at outland
stuff, wilder travel, silent move, and
great at concealing myself and cooking.
Good job.
and dancing. Yeah, dancing. Got some
sort of Tinder bio energy there. So, I
think I'm probably clicking my little
heels as I walk down the the road. You
definitely have like sort of like, you
know, those cloth boots that are like
they look like your foot's in a
pillowcase and then have been tied
around with rope. Yeah. So, it's an
unsatisfying click, but nonetheless, for
some reason, I'm muttering. There's no
place like No, I'm trying. Stop that,
Rob. Stop that. Have we
been pulling it out? Kenneth is normal.
You have not been in his guide. You're
normal people. Well, speak for yourself,
mate. You do have seven moons. Well
done, Right. Okay, cool. All right. Uh
you two heading towards the port. Is
that right? Yeah. Okay. Um the sun very
high in the sky blasting the two of you.
You're just thinking to yourselves that
this walking is going to be difficult
and you don't feel like walking is quite
right. Then around the bend you see ah
it comes back to you the beast of burden
that you share. After you fell over and
collapsed it just wandered around the
corner idly eating some of the
[Laughter]
eating some of the foliage. Some of the
foliage. Some of the kodich. There you
go. Keep telling it keep telling it not
to eat the kodish. Um are you ready to
see a picture of your pack mount? Yes.
Oh my god. Can we do Can we name it? Uh,
you can name it. Yeah, it might have a
name before. We can give it a name. You
ready? Yeah. Three, two, one. Oh, yes.
Oh, heavens to Betsy. That is What was
the thing you have a skill in, Sloop? Is
it thbo? Yeah, it's a thombo. It is your
shared thbo. Okay. It look I Please
describe it for the people at home.
Also, once again, this art's pretty
nice, isn't it? It's so good. It's
really cool. It's so good. Now, please
describe the animal. It's more the
implications that I'm worried about. Uh
I feel like it it comes from the same uh
species branch as Thrles because it is
bipedal with tiny little arms. T-Rex
style. It looks kind of like lizard
skin. Hairless. Hairless. I imagine it's
like this that skin is like like a
sphinx cat, you know, where it's like
not scaly, but it's sort of wrinkly.
Yeah, it's it's got one hell of a
quivering thimble bat or whatever it's
called. Are you two going to say the
obvious thing or am I? You are. It looks
so much like a penis. I mean, does it's
like a penis with legs and I don't know
if that was their intention, although
there was a lot of that kicking around
in fantasy and sci-fi art in the 70s and
80s. Yeah, boy. It it doesn't leave a
lot to the imagination. It looks like it
should be wearing clothes. Now, this is
going to sound like enclosed in a cod
piece. Now, this is going to sound like
a euphemism. It's not. One thing you
notice about the thbo is that it has no
eyes or like where the eye holes are.
Um, I think as the as an iskin sloop,
you would recognize that this thing has
evolved to not have eyes. And as a Madra
Kenth, oh yeah, you know this things
that evolve on Jun who are able to uh
read and absorb the issho energies can
see using the Isho energies. And so over
hundreds of thousands of years, they
evolved. The eyes receded deeper and
deeper into their head and eventually
became vestigial. Interesting. So even
though I guess yeah
biologically it does look quite a lot
like a giant more penile salo. It's
wrinkly and wrinkly with arms. Yeah, he
had prominent eyes. They were a big part
of Yeah. Thittle's not super good with
his show energy. Is it saddled? Uh yes,
there's a double saddle on it. Um, the
thombo turns and looks at you and begins
padding. Boom, boom, boom. Heaven
towards the sk of you. I say, "No, that
doesn't sound quite right. There's no
such thing as shotgun in this world."
No, but I am eyeing that saddle to see
to to confirm surely that I sit at the
front. Well, you would probably sit at
the front because it is trivial for
Sloop to see over you given that you are
4 foot tall. Um, but the thbo advances
towards the two of you. It is heavy.
It's is it really indescribably heavy.
It's also slow. This thing is not like a
horse. It's more like a mule. It also as
you hear like a the sound of a twig
snapping like over a hill. Um it looks
frightened over in that direction. It
seems that thos of course you remember
now are tremendously tremendously
skittish.
Afraid by the sound of the snapping
twig. It goes and buries its huge penis
snout um towards Sloop um and sort of
tries to like hide a little bit um in
her arms and chest. I also want to point
out that it's massive. Oh, it's Oh,
yeah. No, it's massive. There's a
picture of a man riding on its back and
he's not a small man. And it's Yeah,
it's like it's like riding a cow, I
would say, or like a big cow. It's big.
It's It's tall. Those feet are
frightening as well. Those huge chicken
feet. Yeah. Um, but yeah, it seems it's
the size of like a transit van. It seems
to have a special relationship with
sloop as it sort of like buries its
incredibly long brontosaurus looking
neck to I I scratch it under the chin
and
Oh yeah, that's right. They make those
noises. Yeah, it does. We all just found
that out just now. That's the noise they
make. I'm I'm nervously staying a couple
of steps further back out of bites
range. Uh, so bite it opens its big
gummy mouth and it seems to expect Sloop
to feed it some straw or grass or
something. I pick up some grass. This
thing seems, as thos go, slightly lazy
cuz it doesn't seem to want to like
reach down and eat the grass itself.
That's okay. I I can feed it. I I have
an affinity with these animals. Yeah,
don't worry. I've got you some. A huge
quantity of saliva falls onto your bare
leg. I'm like
a I go and wipe it off. Um, as you do
that, um, it kneels down low to be
mounted. Nice. I lift you up and put you
on.
I know. It is quite hard for you to get
on. There are no stirrups, so it is much
easier for Sloop to lift you on. Well,
now we know what you're for, don't we?
Uh, but you can get on yourself next
time. All right. I'm kidding. I'm
kidding. I'll hold out an arm, but not
that it will make any difference.
I look at it really
disparagingly and then I just jump in
the air and land upon the back of our
thrombbo called Oh yeah. Do you want
some names of things? Oh yeah. Do you
want me to pass you the glossery and you
can have named it after something from
the world of Jerun? Love it. Here you
go. Oh, find like a dessert. A dessert.
You are so optimistic about what there
is to eat and do in June. a dessert. Oh,
let's call it after one of the moons.
Oh, that's a good idea. Gobi is one of
the seven moons of Jarun the protector.
But I feel like the protector is not.
Maybe it's ironic. Oh, that could be
ironic. Yeah, have your ironically named
Thombo Gobi. Come on. Now we're playing
in June people. Yes. Making ironic
references to the moons. Yes. Get in.
Get in. And Gobi is also not that hard
to remember. Yeah. Cool. Let's call it
Gobi. GOI. Great. Are you two ready to
do our first roll on the random
encounter taking? Let's go. Check this
out. I'm going to read this paragraph
cuz this is demented. To generate town
encounters, one, roll for the type of
encounter. Two, roll for the occupation
of the NPCs. Three, roll for their race.
Four, roll to see how the encounter
starts. Five, roll for the quirks of
those encountered. Six. Roll to see the
response of the NPCs to the encounter.
So, if you guys would please give me two
minutes
and a handful of dice and then then then
be that character, Quins. It's easy
peasy. Okay. Right. One roll for the
type of encounter. Dund. It's a crafts
maker and their race is Bord. Great. The
big Oh, well, you haven't messed with
Bord yet. I don't even have that on my
culture list. Yeah, it's cuz they're so
It's because it's one of the playable
races. Ah, hang on. There's playable
races. So, they're in addition to all of
these. Yeah, you can only be human wadra
or cord. Oh, but we can't be blown. You
don't want to be a
blown. Take my word for it,
man. Okay, great. Honestly, I'm kind of
into this
system. Okay. Okay, great. And then
finally, oh wow. All right. [ __ ] This
is too much. This is too much sky
realms. I can't do it. Okay, you Jesus
Christ. You on go be the thrombombo are
traveling down the road and you pass um
something like a small oasis and there
is a storyteller at the oasis with
people around him. Um and your encounter
is with a Bord. So Bords, you know how
Madra are like humans but small?
Beccords are like humans but massive. Oh
no, I thought I was a human but massive.
No, you're turns out you're regular
size. Nearly a massive human. The bord
meet is a crafts maker. And this is what
cracked me up. How the encounter starts
is that he's curious about you, but he's
also unpleasant. And his quirk is that
he laughs a lot.
Honestly, man after my own heart.
Honestly, like the thing about random
tables is the more detailed they get,
the more real it feels. But like this is
absolutely a guy you meet in a city and
then don't think about ever again. So
yeah, um uh you see a bunch of people at
this little oasis watching a
storyteller. Um you can see he's telling
stories. Also, he's using uh ambient is
show energy to do like SFX as he tells a
story. So he'll be like the sword hit
the shield and then it'll create sparks
and then he'll say like under the moon
and then he'll create a weird orb. You
watch him produce an orb from his chest
that floats off. Um, all the kids and
adults as well are like sat around the
oasis taking five and and uh and making
ooing and eyeing noises. I'm gonna
trying to trying to do the same gestures
just while you're on the map. See if I
can do the same. I imagine that Sloop is
steering with the res and then freeing
you up with both hands to kind of do
both. And I'm sort of not on her lap.
Not on her lap, but it's a double
saddle. Exactly. Giving a d20 roll for
trying to do an orb. Oh. Uh, an orb. I
That's a nine. You can tell me whether
you succeed or fail. So, if you look for
the orbs of light, orbs of light, which
falls under the moon, I do the orange
moon. Great. My And then what number do
you have on the rightmost highlighted
box? Uh, seven. So, you need to roll
over a seven. I did. You got a nine. I
did. As you're doing Okay, great. So,
uh, Sloop, you notice, um, your cousin
lover, uh, making strange gestures with
his hands, and then from roughly just
below your heart, sort of your sternum,
you're able to, you make a weird noise
like a, and then a small marblesized
sphere of bright light, which you can
barely see cuz it's a sunny day, emerges
from your chest as if you'd sort of
blown a bubble out of your chest. What
are you doing? Oh, it's it's it's a
show. What? And I sort of look around.
You can you lean around and you can see
he's cradling. He's sort of he's
produced a couple now. In fact, they
keep telling me he can do back inside
you.
I don't know how to turn it off. Um you
do uh uh Azim Wadra, you have now spent
uh how many What's the issue cost of
orbs of light?
Uh I think that's one. Great. So you
have spent one of your daily isho. Okay.
So there's a box to the right of your
isho isho points. Yeah. Okay. which is
one as 35. So now you're down to 34. 34.
Now here's one of my favorite things. If
you want to fill that energy back up, as
you sleep, your body will naturally fill
itself with June energy. But if you want
to collect it, the reason you don't have
armor is because you need to scamper
around the hills finding where the issue
weather is strong and like squat like
absorbing it. Oh, and then like roll
around in it. I don't know. I get No.
Yeah. But yeah. No, the reason in this
world why you don't wear armor is
because you may need to do that in the
middle of combat. Anyway, oh no, not in
the middle of combat because it takes
hours. You're scampering around the
hills for hours. Okay. Anyway. All
right. Well, it's all worth it to know
that I can produce orbs on command. It's
like a dream come true. Um you say that
you say it's like a dream come true as
you're looking at the orbs in your hand
when you hear um uh of someone. Yeah.
Oi. Um, you look over and see a Bord, a
human who turns out they guess they grow
humans big as well as small in this
world about 10 foot tall. So you two are
on the saddle on the big thombo. The
10ft tall human approaches and he is
like at eye level with you. [ __ ] Um, he
has he he's carrying a craftsman's
tools. He has a hammer and in one hand
which with which and and a chisel in
another. Um, and he approach and he's
just, if I had to describe his manner, I
would say he's curious about you but
unpleasant. Um, he says, "Who are you?"
Who's asking? I am. My name is,
god damn it. Pulling at the first hurdle
here. I am Bont. I'm a craftsman. And
who are you?
He looks at you and not looks at the
madra sat in front of you and then
examines the chalus around your neck and
says, "Oh, hoping to become a dreary.
You bossing me around." What makes you
think that you have the right to stand
head and shoulders above your the rest
of the [ __ ] uh what are they? Accord.
No, the the people who aren't dren the
tooth. What's the toth? Ice isn't
everything.
Bons I've raised myself up a little bit.
He frowns at that and says, "Where are
you two off to?"
We travel to the docks. We have a We're
meeting someone there. Light on details.
Admittedly, he looks at the two of you
back and forth and says, "And who are
you looking at the large larger woman
behind your Madra? I am Sloop, an
outdoor scientist." He nods and says,
"Ah, an Ishin." Oh, yes, that's what it
is. Very well,
I want you two to know I I shan be
stamping your chalice with my name
because I can't as I'm not a Dren. But
if I was a Dren, you wouldn't be getting
my stamp. Well, then we are at an on
pass, aren't we? Yes. Well, carry on.
Carry on. He walks behind your thrombbo
and unpleasantly slaps its hind courses.
Um, it doesn't move because it's very
loyal to you, Sloop, but it does crane
its weird brontosaurus head back towards
you and looks kind of upset. Can these
things kick? Can these things kick? It
can. Let's do an attack roll from Gobi.
You just reminded me it's literally
their thing. All right, that's a [ __ ]
18.
Yes. Come on. Gobi's the third member of
the party. Take your hands off of Gobi.
Okay. Well, we need to roll on an injury
table, which I don't think I'll just do
a It's like 2d6, I think. Like you said,
other actual plays might have cute
mascots. We're not selling any t-shirts
of Gobi. Uh, we might sell commemorative
dildos, judging by the image, but Gobi
thumps the Bord, but fortunately, I
rolled only does a superficial injury.
Good. Um, Bont goes um but is
embarrassed and hopes no one saw us and
walks off because really it was his
fault for walking behind a thbo and
slapping it which is exactly what I
iterated that he did.
Height isn't everything. The storyteller
sort of uh finishes his story and that's
the end of that random encounter. How
did we feel that one? Oh no, Ken Kent is
going to shout across to the storyteller
and say, "Remember the tale of the time
that you saw Ken and Sloop and their
their defeat of the uh hilarious but
rather rude Bont." All right. Yeah.
Well, you wait for the sequel. Yeah.
You say y the thbo does not move.
And I calmly shake the rains and say the
th Okay.
Goi continues trottting along. I'm going
to fire off some more moons. Okay,
great.
Literally marking Rob is marking down
his last little boy. You do have the you
got these little bubbles of light you're
producing. Can I point out you do have
some If you want to like do impressive
[ __ ] you do have some like actual [ __ ]
kicking spells. This will do for now.
Okay, great. Producing bubbles. Um, you
crest a hill and can see down a winding
switchback road down towards an
unexpected shimmering sort of emerald
green color water. You can see water as
far as the eye can see slapping up
against the sides of a squared off stone
dock. Again, there's a whiff of feces
and something else. Someone's cooking
something, but it smells truly awful.
And you can see species of all shapes
and sizes down, you know, 200 yards
below you, below, down past the road,
um, going in and out of probably about
20 or 30 buildings. You make your way
down to the town and still aren't
entirely sure what you're looking for,
but a good place to start is an incl, as
you two know is basically an inn. I clap
in clap. Um, you naturally find yourself
doing your throbo towards it. Uh, as
you're approaching the door, you can see
a little stables with a couple of other
thos and some other weird looking
animals that I'm not going to get into
here. Um, what do those thos look like
compared to Gobi? Oh, that's a good
question. Let's roll a d20 to see how
good Gobi is as thos go. Rolled an 11.
Honestly, he's totally average.
Kicks like a mule. Kicks like a gem mule
though. In fact, Jimu doesn't stop
trying to make puns happen when you
don't understand what the words that
even mean that they're based on. You've
recruited the wrong player coinc. Okay,
great. Um, as you approach the inlet,
you hear sounds of fighting and ruckus.
Immediately, some dull memory comes back
to the two of you that as
inpiquely shady one. At the sounds of
fighting inside, the first thing to run
out are a few of these rodents. I'm
showing my players another picture.
Oh god. Okay. Yeah. How would you
describe that to the people at home?
They're about the size of if you imagine
that this part is large rat sized. Sort
of another T-Rex thing. It's kind of a
recurring thing. All bipedal. Yeah.
Chicken. Chickeny. It's like if a rat
was also a bat. Yeah. Has it got Has it
got wings? Are those folded up wings? I
think there's a fold up wings that
Arvestig is terrifying. It's like it
could like run at you and bite your
ankles with its wings out like how big
is it? Uh it's about that's about the
size of a rat. So all told it's about
the size of a rabbit. That is you are
looking at a beager. Um so a handful of
beagers run out and immediately Gobi
begins snorting and taking a step
backwards. He can detect the issue
energy radiating from these little
nasties. Uh, I'm going to call for a uh
a thombo handling check. Okay. From uh
from you, Sleep. Thanks. You got this.
Is that a D20? There are so many
[ __ ] words in this. Uh, is it? Let's
see. I don't know. I think it's a D00.
Quinn is looking at my sheet, which I
didn't even know would tell me. You're
You're trying to get a Dund roll under
the number 80. Under 80. Yes.
Uh, 32. That's piece of cake. You You
maintain control of your thought. How do
you soothe it? I I've got the res and I
hold them very tight and I just hold its
head just on my shoulder. Okay. So,
yeah, you take you put its head on your
shoulder. It makes a
um as uh it sort of exhales in a relaxed
fashion. It's it's afraid of the little
the nasty little beagers as they run
around following the beagers. Um a human
is fully well actually no. The first
thing that hits the ground is something
that looks like a cross between a drum
and a tambourine which flies out of the
door and hits the ground. A human is
then bodily thrown out WWE style uh
stumbles and then lands heavily on the
instrument and he goes, "Oh, my jer."
Another uh another instrument is thrown
out which looks like a violin but maybe
you hit levers to change the notes. Um
it goes clattering out of the bar and
you hear a voice going my in um as he
runs out puts his head on his hands and
goes no and goes to see the damage to
his in instrument. Another man walks
another human um of a cord big tall
walks out going I'm so glad my dicandra
stones are okay as he's holding what
looks like a hard calcium fist of some
kind of swamp creature that you could
maybe blow into to make a noise. Okay.
They're all sort of like um uh making
sure like checking on each other in
their instruments. They they whatever
happened in there, they got thrown out.
Um you also hear some music uh start up
um inside that you two recognize as the
sound of a tent shine um which is a
carved horn you blow into. It's like a
rude sort of more primitive and
univilized music enjoyed by species
other than humans. Seems that you two
are going to have to go into the
roughest incl.
Ken rubs his hands together. This is
this is more his kind of territory. You
notice that uh assumes your traveling uh
Snoop, you notice your traveling
partner's hair is standing on end. Do do
you need a discharge? Oh, I'm I'm sure
it's fine for a little bit. I take a
swig of my Hang on. Hang on. Hang on.
Russ Yeah. And I slither off the back of
Gobi. Yeah, cuz I I would really love
you to still be on Gobi. Oh, I'm still
on Gobi. I don't get Goi, but I don't
give up the high ground unless I have
to. So I Yeah, I It's much further to
fall than I had remembered to get off
GOI because Gobi doesn't kneel down for
me. Fine. That's
fine. And pick myself up, dust myself
up, and I'm going to go over to the
musicians and say, "What's up, lads?"
Um, as you are going to have to navigate
your most difficult social situation
yet, the first time without friends and
entering a dangerous bar, I'm going to
say we call it there for episode one.
Oh. Uh, thank you very much for playing
everybody. But you don't get to find out
what happens until we play again.
But where am I going to stable go be?
All these questions and more will be
answered on the next episode of Find
Out. Sedicious again. What was that
again? Oh, we'll get to it. I have no
[Music]
doubt. And thank you for listening
everybody. And please enjoy this sneak
peek of what's coming later in our
season of Sky Realms of Joe
Run. And from the hill, you can see
this. Holy [ __ ] Will you describe
Skyship?
You're here now. I need to catch you up.
No, no, that's going to take a moment.
We got thrilled. That one's going to
fester. Oh. Oh, he was so happy about
it. He was suspiciously happy now, I
think, on it. Oh, the bastard.
You fell for the oldest trick in the
book. Now has a gun. It has a gun. No,
wait. I
What is that chart, Quins? The the chart
of where you're getting shanked with a
spear, right?
I don't know. I thought we had a
destiny. Qu
I don't know, Emily. It was the 80s. A
lot of people were on cocaine.
We can math this out. If we keep
fighting, I think you two die. Yeah.
Yeah.
Is there a variety of trees or are they
all just hazardous?
I'm beginning to think this world
doesn't want us here, Quinn. Yeah,
that's interesting. Let's Let's think
more about that.
Your 100 on the encounter table bursts
out like you've encountered a fog. Get
ready.
Don't laugh. How does one get ready for
a Don't laugh.
If you [ __ ] this up, cannot describe to
you how much your adventure ends here.
Yeah, that's fair.
[Music]
Wow. If you'd like to continue
listening, here's how that works. The
first episode of every season of Play to
Find Out will always be free and the
rest will always be found in a dedicated
podcast feed on the Quinn's Quest
Patreon. You can find a link to the
Patreon in the description of this
episode, but just
$3.99 gets you access to the rest of the
episodes, plus a big talkback episode
where we all discuss how it felt to play
Skyrems of Joe Run, plus access to scans
of our game materials like maps,
handouts, and those absolutely cursed
character sheets. And that is of course
on top of everything you already get in
the Quinn's Quest Patreon, like videos
from me about my home campaigns and how
to bring your home games to the next
level. Long interviews with some of the
most exciting modern RPG designers, blog
posts, which half the time are
practically whole reviews of cool RPGs
in and of themselves because I can't
help myself apparently. and of course
access to the Quinn's Quest Discord
server where people spend all day
chatting about role playing as well as
pitching anduling campaigns among one
another. I have no doubt that right now
there are absolute strangers discussing
starting a campaign of Skyrems of Joe
Run. And the tragic part is there's
nothing I can do to stop them. But also
in subscribing to the Patreon, your
pledge will go towards keeping this
series going. Well, I'll just read the
credits. This episode of PTFO had
editing and design by Kate Saunders with
an original score by Will Ceino and
additional editing by Brian Flity of
Many Sided Media. And of course, Emily
Johnson and Rob Morgan played the roles
of Emily Johnson and Rob Morgan. Take
care everybody. I hope to see lots of
you over at patreon.com/quest.
But for everybody, may your derigs be
fresh and your clutch be light.
