We meet again, my league. Wash me.
Unhand me, swine.
I'm cold, sir.
That's toasty. How cozy.
A duck.
No, too many duckies.
The Greek philosopher Socrates once said
that the only true wisdom is knowing
that you know nothing. Well, I know
everything. And that's why.
All right, scallywags. We all love role
playing games that come in books. Cozy,
dreamy cream colored pages. Hard back so
thick they resemble the reassuringly
strong arms of a lover. Except it's not
your body being enclosed safe and sound.
It's your imagination.
But you show me someone who role plays
out of a book. And I'll show you a
coward. People who know they'll never be
short of ideas, huddling behind that
preposterous page count as if they were
hiding behind their mother's skirts.
Now, I've got nothing against mothers or
skirts or hiding, but today on Coins
Quest, I'm here to tell you there's
another way. Today, I'm reviewing four
of the best role playing games that come
in boxes. And I'll be giving an
honorable mention to two of their best
friends. Have I played these games? You
bet your pencils I have. That's the
Quinn's Quest Guarantee. I actually
played more than just these four boxed
RPGs for this special episode. These are
just the four games that I loved. I tell
you what, I like that we're reviewing
four games in this episode because, you
see, a box has four sides. And
apparently reviewing Triangle Agency
last episode has irrevocably dented my
brain. But all jokes aside, which is
convenient because I don't have any
more, I think this is the most important
episode of Quinn's Quest I have done
yet. I wouldn't have started Quinn's
Quest if I didn't believe that role
playing games were having a moment right
now. However, for me as an evangelist
who wants to like further these
developments, trying to get someone into
role playing games by handing them some
books feels like trying to get someone
into music by being like, "Ah, you're
going to love music here. Just take this
guitar and uh hold these maracas, but
don't shake them yet. Don't shake them
yet." It's crazy. You want to get
someone to this hobby by handing them
something that's thicker than the manual
for their new car, but with pictures of
dwarves. I'll tell you what's also
stupid and backward when it comes to
accessibility. The default way of
playing our hobby is to meet up for a
campaign lasting years where you have to
meet maybe six times for the story to
even get going. Sure, you can
technically play any of the games
overviewed on Quins Quest as a oneshot
lasting just one evening, but let's be
real, that's awful. That's like going to
Kenya for an adventure holiday, but your
return flight leaves in 3 hours. GMing
is hard enough already. Stop making
these poor people run the game as if
they're a video playing at 1.5 times
speed. It really couldn't be simpler,
you guys. is to get more people into
this hobby. We need more games with
simple rules, where the plot accelerates
immediately, and where everything is
wrapped up by the end of the evening.
I'm talking about story games where the
plot deploys instantly, like a
parachute, and always reliably floats
you down towards a finale. It is crazy
that more games aren't designed this way
because all we're doing in this hobby is
being sat in a circle telling a story,
an activity humans have been doing since
before prehistory. And it doesn't
usually take 9 months or a Bible full of
else. Now, if we're talking about games
that are simple and short enough to be
completed in a single evening, there is
of course no reason why they can't come
in a book. And for solid examples of
that, you could look at The Skeletons or
Blue Beard's Bride or Last Train to
Bremen. But in this reviewer's humble
opinion, if you want a product that
makes things as easy as possible for the
players, our future lies in boxes.
Because a box says to a designer, please
use every tool at your disposal to make
this easier. Cards, boards, bits, apps,
maps. And a box says to a player, hey,
don't worry about doing any hard work.
We've done it for you. So that's my
cheery cheery intro. Let's see what fun
is waiting for us in the first game.
Who wants to experience the great winter
of 1888? Wait, it gets better. This
story is so small scale, you'll have
crystalclear HD mental images of the
body parts you're losing to frostbite
and the house cats that you're eating or
eating. You look it, it's more fun than
it sounds. All right. The design of
Desperation is super funky. Think of it
like a voyeristic role- playinging game
where the players around the table
aren't creating characters because the
characters are already right there on
the table. And then you don't decide
what they do because that's all in this
deck of cards. Instead, on your turn,
you draw a card to reveal a slip of
fiction as dirty and delicate as a used
needle. You read it aloud to the table
and then you simply decide who's saying
it and also perhaps who they're
referring to and maybe also who's now a
dead because Jesus Christ, there is so
much death in this game's cast of
characters. Everywhere you look,
someone's getting smoked. Reminds me of
when I was playing Apex Legends. I was
half expecting this deck to have a
sniper rifle and a zipline. Anyway,
sorry. Um, would you like me to continue
explaining the rules of desperation? Um,
I actually can't because I already have.
Magnificently, that is the game. You
just take turns, draw a card, read it.
That person said that, that person's now
dead. That person's moved house. Draw
another card. You spend the first act,
Autumn, getting to know the town,
setting up some romance and intrigue.
You spend a second act, winter, having
to assign punishing developments that
are universally upsetting to a cast of
characters you've grown to like. And
then you spend a third act, hell, in
which, well, we wouldn't want to spoil
that, would we? But what is bitingly
cruel is the game only ends when you
draw this card that says spring finally
comes. But it is shuffled into the
bottom of the deck somewhere. And this
then creates this lush bit of immersion
where the players around the table share
a sensation with the characters in the
game that you all just cannot believe
this winter will not end. And you're all
praying for spring because as players,
you've already killed off all the
pillocks and the liars and the greed
heads and all the people that are left
to kill are the kitty winks and the
lovers and that one character in the
shack that you lowkey decided is kind of
your player character, even though
you're not technically supposed to do
that. And then it's your turn to step up
to the plate and draw the next card from
this unforgiving,
hateful deck. And you're just praying
that at the bottom of that card will not
be printed the words, "Put someone in
the dead house."
No.
But don't worry if the sound of an
isolated agrarian community losing its
food, then its pets, then its limbs,
then its children, then its mind, then
asking why God has forsaken them sounds
a little bit, I don't know, sad. There
is another game you can play in this
box. This box actually contains two
different experiences. Super cool.
Instead of spending your evening in the
southern Kansas town of Miola, you can
instead spend your evening also in 1888
with the crew of a threemasted cod
schooner. And in this deck, the plot is
that you're sailing into a storm that
the ship cannot weather and where the
crew will soon start losing its ship,
then its limbs, then its mind, then
asking why God has forsaken them, and
then dying. because variety is of the
spice of life. So, I adore Desperation.
It's proof as if it was needed that
designer Jason Morning Star is an
absolute legend, a titan of the tabletop
scene. And together with the rest of the
team at Publishers Bully Pulpit, they've
put together like a gothic narrative
train set. I couldn't believe how
evocative this game is. But then, maybe
I shouldn't be surprised. The people and
locations on this game are just
captivating. The writing is transporting
and so tight. There's not a single
typewritten keystroke out of place. And
you know what else? It's not just that
this game presents characters and
locations to you with incredible
vividity. It's also that it takes you
back in time. It transports you to
another era better than any other RPG
I've ever played. And it's kind of a
cheat the way it does that, right?
Because traditionally RPGs are like the
story is a collaboration between the
players and the designers. But not not
really in this game. No, it doesn't let
you decide on anything that happens in
the plot. It only allows you to decide
what the angle is, who's saying it, and
in doing that, it doesn't let you up any
of that historical accuracy, which I
think as a history nerd is a good thing,
and that's what I want. You guys might
disagree with me here. That's fine. But
to me, like, I haven't researched this
era. Me and my friends are going to
screw it up. Please take the wheel,
guys. So, that's a lot of like lofty
hyperbbiten, but then the actual game is
so simple and so fun. You're just sat up
here deploying plot like Zeus throwing
lightning bolts. Bam. Bam. Your child
hates you. Your dog is dead. This game
makes me sound like a psychopath.
It's But listen, have you ever seen the
any of those puppeted Sylvanian family
short form videos where someone plays
out the plot of an entire adult movie in
like two minutes and it's super funny?
There's a little bit of that energy in
this game. It's kind of funny, right?
Because this is like the most
unbelievably bleak setting of all time.
And yet, what this game captures, I
think, is that feeling of being a kid
and like puppeting your toys around. And
listen, when I'm talking about how role
playing can be and arguably has to be
simpler and quicker and punchier, this
is exactly what I'm talking about.
Although I will add here, um, and this
is true of just about every game I'm
covering in this episode, just because
these games can be played in an evening,
they do not have to be. Like most
desperation cards end with this line,
which is speak your truth. And that
means that you can give a monologue as
that character. You can play out a short
scene. You can sit back as script
writers and consider other things that
happen because of this bit of the plot.
You can do whatever you want. And if you
bought Desperation and told me, "Oh
yeah, we played Dead House and it took
us four weeks playing every Friday."
that would make sense to me. But for the
record, you could also bash this game
out on a lunch break at your work. As
for criticism of Desperation, um I don't
really have anything negative to say
about it, except maybe that well, it's
not the cute animals from Sbian family
cheating on one another. In terms of
just its game design, Desperation could
have been the box that I recommend to
everybody to get them into the hobby.
And it's it's not that, is it? It's two
separate depictions of the year 1888
full of loneliness and miscarriages and
cod and copyrighting. Like my horse
Sally slipped her halter and fought her
way up the hill and ate her fill her
black locust buck. Now she's pissing
herself and falling over and dying. I
loved that horse. I needed that horse.
which is to say it's not a game for
everybody. It's the game that Jason
wanted to make, which is what Bully
Pulpit do. And it's why they have the
wildest back catalog of any RPG
publisher with games like The Skeletons,
which involves sitting in the dark with
your friends in silence and cowboys with
big hearts. A game about playing a posy
of cowboys on a quest for revenge with
literal heart disease. and where every
skill check is a coin toss as to whether
your medication works or you literally
 yourself. Ooh. So, I think
desperation is astonishingly good and
also a missed opportunity to create the
most accessible role playing game of all
time. But if Bully Pulpit had done that,
they wouldn't be Bully Pulpit anymore.
But if you do want something less bleak,
Bully Pulpit will soon be coming out
with another boxed game, Zenya's
Wonderales. And this one is all about
playing out Russian folktales. and where
I'm pretty sure you can have a sexual
relationship with a bear.
That's it. That's the end of the review.
>> Tacklebox is a two-player RPG that's not
for everyone. Fortunately, it's for me.
And since I'm the one who makes these
reviews, I've very much got you dweebs
under a barrel. But two things about
this box do make it objectively
exciting. First off, it tells stories in
the genre of surrealism. And that's not
something that gets explored very often
in role playing games. Like, it appears
as a subgenre, like it's a surreal
fantasy game, but not often by itself.
And I think that's a shame because this
hobby is so indescribably weird that
surrealism is surely us playing to our
strengths. Tackle Box is also noteworthy
because technically it's not a TTRPG
because, you see, it doesn't use a
table. It is in fact a L. And that's an
acronym that stands for live action
roleplay aka recreational play pretend.
For the duration of a game of tackle
box, your two players are going to be
sat as if they are in a fishing boat
together. So, we don't need this table.
Let's get rid of it.
This is awful and I regret it
immediately. So, for the duration of
your two-player game of Tackle Box, you
and your other player are going to be
casting lines, reeling, fishing, and
generally using the space. And if you
think that's cringe, look, I don't know
what to tell you, but I think you've got
it backwards. I think in terms of how
many cool points this hobby gets you, we
pretty much hit rock bottom when we
decided that charisma and fitness would
be reduced to literal statistics, as if
they've both just been murdered. But
lapping, laughing is just acting. And I
thought we decided on our society that
actors were kind of cool. So get over
yourself and come join me in our
imaginary fishing boat. Don't fall in.
So the way that a game of Tacklebox
works is that it's always about two
characters called Robin and Parker. And
before the game begins, you and your
other player will decide which of you is
which, how you know each other, and why
you're out here fishing. And then you
just start playing. You're just two
people in your living room pretending to
be fishing. Does that sound weird? No.
No. It's going to get weirder. You see,
as you're playing, you're also going to
make sure that this game's deck of 40
cards is somewhere near the two of you.
And when either of you want to draw a
card from this deck within the fiction,
you tell the other person you're getting
something from the tackle box. You're
like, I'm going to get a beer from the
tackle box. And then you draw a card.
And what's on that card? Well, I really
want to spoil as little as possible
here. So, I'm going to read you just one
card in full. This fishing experience is
an elaborate game. You just have to
figure out the exact right things to say
or do, the proper path through the
dialogue tree with your companion in
order to unlock the later stages of this
game. And then this game never leaves
you hanging. There's always just this
little valuable bit of clarification.
This is not your first time playing out
this interaction, but you're determined
to unlock it this time. But that's just
one card. All I can tell you is that
whatever happens in your game of
tacklebox, there will be a recurring
gameplay loop where one of you goes,
"I'm gonna get some more bait from the
tackle box."
What the And then very importantly
in this game, you do not show or even
explain the card you've drawn to the
other player, which gives the whole
experience this very like avantguard
stage play vibe where to begin with the
two of you are telling the same story
and then one of you draws a card and
just starts acting super weird and the
other player is saying, "What in balls
are you talking about?" And that's a fun
dynamic except then maybe they draw a
card that makes them weird and then
you're on the back foot. But this game
isn't fun because it's like high-minded
and theatrical. It's also fun just
because it plays with knowledge and
power dynamics. Like imagine you drew
that card we saw earlier where you're
like, "Okay, I'm in a video game. I'm
trying to pick the correct dialogue
option." That's fun. But then if 5
minutes later your friend draws a card
and suddenly starts talking to you about
how none of this is real, right? And
then you're going to be like, "Yeah."
But then in character, you get to go
through this like tumbler realization of
like, "Wait, is this NPC becoming
self-aware? Is this video game just
really avong guard? Or am I in fact not
in a video game and experiencing
psychosis?" And this is the game. And
what I love about Tacklebox is there's
so much variety in this deck that when
you sit down to play it, you truly don't
know if you're about to experience
something super silly or really
thoughtprovoking. All you know is the
game is going to continue stumbling
forward like a drunk giraffe until both
players have drawn three cards which
probably contain a total of at least
three or four mindbending plot twists.
And at that point, one player can ask
the other how many more fish do you want
to catch? Which is code for how many
more cards do you want to draw? But the
other player can just say let's just go
home. And that's it. That is the last
line of your play. I do still feel super
naked without my table, though. So,
let's just get it back.
Here's a separate capsule review of
Tackle Box for you. The first time I
played Tackle Box, my friend and I
played it across 30 minutes. We then
talked about that game for 20 minutes.
We then immediately decided to play
another game of Tacklebox. And after
that, I was left going home thinking
about the other friends I wanted to play
this with, which is also just me wanting
to show it to them. And while I'm not
expecting a lot of you to be super
excited about Tacklebox, I think you'll
be more excited by the games coming
later in this video. I just want to talk
about why this game hit so well for me.
First off, I think the combination of
super highminded meta plot twists
combined with something as humrum and
human as being stuck on a fishing boat
together that just goes together like
peanut butter and chocolate. Also,
designer Jay Walton has just made a
really strong deck of surprising
prompts. I trust this deck to show me a
good time. I trust that in the game that
we run with it, we're going to laugh and
we're going to come away thinking about
the weird peculiarities of the terrible
play we just wrote. But maybe more even
than that, there's something so exciting
about Tackle Box because when you sit
down to play it, like literally when you
sit and climb into that fishing boat
with your friend, you have no idea
what's about to happen. When I sit down
to play this game, my heart rate
actually increases a little bit because
it's this trust exercise almost you're
doing with someone else. The final
prompt that I drew in my first game of
Tacklebox caused me to turn in character
to my friend and say the words, "I'm
going to kill myself." And he turned to
me in a panic and went, "Fuck off." And
both of us delivered those lines
entirely straight, not as jokes, but the
combination of them caused us to
immediately just piss ourselves
laughing. And that's the game. Like,
usually role playing games are like a
collaboration between the players and
the designer to build a story together.
In Tacklebox, it feels like absolutely
no one is in control. Not the designer
and not either player. And maybe if this
was a game where you're sat at a table
with pencils and paper, that would just
be kind of annoying. But because this is
a lap, because you're in character,
because you have nowhere to go, it's
quite thrilling. And then finally, I
just love how little space it takes up.
It's got no rules to teach. It's got no
expectations of what the experience is
going to be. Comes in this little deck
that you can just slip into your pocket,
right into your pocket, and then you can
go to your friend's house and say, "Hey,
hey, hey, do you want to do something
weird with me?" It takes about 20
minutes. Before we move on from
Tacklebox, I do just want to say that
Possible Worlds Games has another game
in the same product line that Oh, Jesus.
>> Hi there. It looks like you're trying to
review a role playing game.
>> I'm actually succeeding at reviewing a
role playing game.
>> Perhaps you'd like to know more about
the following subjects. Success.
>> Perhaps you'd like to off.
>> I'm sorry. I understood you as far as
wanting to off.
>> That was the end of the sentence. That
was everything you needed to pass. the
just you always do the let's go to the
Patreon push
kissing quarrels boobs
pennis what do all these words have in
common that's right they're the language
of romance and that is the subject of
the video that I have just dropped today
for members of the Quins Quest fan club
the fan club was previously available as
a magazine which it could be said
provided
The latest page was always a
particularly
so today, if you want to support the
work that I do telling people about role
playing games, it all happens at
patreon.com/quest.
Just $4 gets you access to a ton of
extra content, but also, and I don't say
this enough, the warm, satisfying
feeling in the pit of your belly that
your money is now mine. But also, uh, in
the last six months, the Patreon appears
to have become a place where I put
slightly more vulnerable or just
downright sketchy content that I am
absolutely fine with less people seeing,
such as this month's video on romance.
So, in my home role playing games, I've
actually been on a bit of a journey. You
see, 4 years ago, four years, I set
myself the goal of seeing if I could
make my players make their player
characters kiss. And if that sounds
problematic,
I mean, yeah, but just just just hear me
out. All right. So, what the hobby of
role playing is is just a bunch of
people sat around a table telling a
story together, right? And to me,
stories that don't have some amount of
love or sex or intimacy or querness just
fall flat. Like try and pick a TV show
or movie that you've seen that isn't
made for like super small children that
doesn't have some amount of romance or
sex appeal in it. It can't be done. It's
too fundamental to the human condition.
So, my goal of making my players kiss,
was it awkward? Yes. Did I get consent
from them, though? No. But what have I
got to show for it after 4 years of hard
graft? That's right. I've got a Patreon
video talking about how and why my
efforts were a failure, but also psych.
This video also talks about where and
how I succeeded. My home games now often
feature romance. My players are mostly
comfortable with it, except for the ones
that aren't. But all of my players would
agree that the romance we now do that
seems so impossibly cringe 4 years ago
now generates some of the most exciting
and funny and memorable moments in our
roleplay. So, if you'd like to hear the
juicy details of some of those scenes,
if you'd like to hear how I got a table
of awkward adults into describing things
to one another that if not directly hot
is certainly hot adjacent, and maybe
most importantly, if you'd like to hear
where I went about this the wrong way,
it's all happening at patreon.com/quest.
Before we move on, I just wanted to say
that publishers of Tacklebox, Possible
Worlds Games, have another great game in
the same product line, Better Strangers
by designer Tyler Crumbing, which is a
game you play while people watching,
inventing stories for people you see in
real life at a cafe or a bar or in your
prenatal class. Don't do that. Now, a
game of what is essentially judging
strangers in public could have easily
been cruel, transforming you and your
friends into the mean girls at the back
of the bus. But I'm pleased to say that
Tyler has thought about that an awful
lot. With hard rules like the subjects
should not be children. Allow children
to create their own stories before you
create ones for them. Isn't that a
lovely bit of copyrighting? It's almost
enough to make you forget that it's
there to stop you from aggroing mobs of
furious parents. And then just as
importantly, the game's deck is full of
really positive prompts like this person
neutralized a threat to something or
someone important to them. What was it?
So good. And then you can move on to the
next stranger if you want. Or you can
continue fleshing out that first
stranger by using the italicized halves
on the bottom of the cards. Like this
person has a catchphrase. What is it? I
wasn't expecting anything from this box,
but it ended up really impressing me.
What a great gift for the gamer in your
life. that has everything. And look how
good these two little boxes look
together. Now, who wants to see a box
that I don't like the look of?
I don't like this box. I don't like the
art. I don't like the composition. I
don't like how big it is. I don't even
like the name. Lovecraftesque. That
sounds like the literary equivalent of
something that for legal reasons has to
be called orange drink. Except I also
find Lovecraft kind of played out. So,
it's more like tired drink. And yet,
this game designed by Joshua Fox and
Becky Anderson snowplowed through my
wonky first impressions. And I actually
found this tired drink refreshing and
delicious. And I would actually like to
serve a bowl of this tired drink to my
friends. Yeah, let's drop this analogy.
It's dumb. Basically, this box lets a
table of three to six players create but
also kind of experience a horror movie
together. A bit like how the popular
game Microscope lets a group of people
create a whole world and its history,
this box lets you create a protagonist
who proceeds to have a really, really,
really, really, really bad time. Also, I
should mention, as far as HP Lovecraft
being a famous piece of goes, this
game has absolutely done its due
diligence. There's a box out in the
rules as well as two separate appendices
being like, "By the way, we know
Lovecraft was racist even by the
standards of the time." And the game
actually also has a bunch of content
written by people of color. So, that's
cool. But here's the thing. I don't
think they had to brand this game with
Lovecraft at all. They did it because
this game considers itself an engine for
telling Lovecraft style stories. That's
cuz it has this super strict structure
where a lone individual first denies
some supernatural things are happening,
but keeps pulling those threads until
they finally realize a terrible truth
behind it all, and then it's too late.
And am I crazy for thinking? Like, yes,
that does describe HP Lovecraft, but
today that simply describes most horror
movies. Anyway, what is this game? Why
are you covering it, Quins? Why is it
cool? Let's go. So, you set up
Lovecraftesque by choosing a scenario,
and that gives you some characters and
locations and gets you to customize a
deck that everyone's going to draw from
during the game. Like, I played Mr.
Giggles Comes to Dinner, where our
protagonist was a single dad who worked
in a chemical plant and whose daughter
was fine. She was absolutely fine. Why
does everyone keep asking if she's fine?
Yeah, she's a little obsessed with her
imaginary friend. I mean, aren't most
8-year-olds? And these cards are the
kind of time-saving initiatives that
makes me a fan of boxed RPGs. So, I
suppose we'll start this evening by
creating our cast of characters. Oh, the
game's done it for us. Look, there's
some characters. Oh, okay. Cool. Well,
next I would like in our story if out
back of the house the camera could
linger on a sort of Oh, you mean like
out back of the house there's a spooky
service tunnel. ladder goes down to a
locked door. Door remains locked till
the last possible second. Camera lingers
on the locked door throughout the movie.
When the door's finally open, is maybe
connected to the chemical plant. Maybe
it's not connected at all. Or maybe
that's a sign of the father psychosis.
Yeah, that's in the game. It's on a card
already. So, when setup is complete,
then you and the other players around
the table are free to start enjoying the
wild structure of this game in play. You
see, in Lovecraftes, everyone at the
table takes turns playing the
protagonist from scene to scene, and
everybody else is a kind of GM trying to
bully them. It is a lot more complicated
and nuanced than that, but that is my
favorite bit. Basically, you all have
these roles that pass clockwise after
every scene. One card says you're the
protagonist. You make decisions and say
that character's internal monologue.
Another card says you're the GM. You
describe the scene and you build up to
the clue card in your hand you're going
to play and then everyone else is a
whisperer who are like the backing band
for the GM. They can chime in with
atmospheric details. They can play NPCs
if the GM asks them to, but also they're
there to answer questions. Now,
especially at my house, lots of role
playing games can feel a bit like a
writer's room. Lovecraft really leans on
that. Mid-cene, the GM can be like,
"Okay, you see the house and I need a
reason for him to go in the house." A,
what would his colleagues be
like? What's the worst thing his
daughter could say to him right now?
That'll break his heart. Perfect. So,
play proceeds like this with players
swapping roles and each time you do,
telling a new scene of your story. And
that scene often ends when you've
introduced a clue. And these clue cards
come from a deck, but this deck is only
here to help you. Some of the help is
really useful, but also, and I love
this, the game says you can just kind of
ignore your hand of cards. If you just
love what another player put down in the
last scene, you can build on that clue.
The only rules are that at the start of
the game, the GM can narrate no harm to
the player or any NPCs. And also,
anything supernatural has to have a
rational explanation. It's just that as
you go from acts one to act two, these
rules start to flake away until you
enter a truly electric act three where
you turn all the royal cards face down
and players take turns narrating just a
few sentences at a time until you arrive
at these red numbered scenes at which
point any player can be like I got this
and take the narrative baton and then
proceed to describe a final scene where
they essentially break the protagon ist
once and for all. Now, once again, let
me admit that I am drastically
oversimplifying the machinery in this
game. That's partially because I want to
get through a lot of reviews in this
episode of Queen Quest, but it's also
because once again, I don't want to
spoil some of the secrets in this game.
Because the truth is, Lovecraftes is
quite a funny thing. The structure in
this game is sensationally strict. It's
like the RPG equivalent of a ballet
teacher that thinks cruelty to children
is basically okay if you get a good
performance out of them at the end. This
game's like, "We're gonna create a good
horror movie, which means we have to
stick to these 18 rules. You can't do
this. You must do this. You can't do
this. You must do this." And I respect
that because horror as a genre of
storytelling is made up of a load of
really strict rules. But as any horror
fan will tell you, horror is also
defined by breaking those rules, those
narrative conventions, right? Because
when the audience knows they're in a
narrative convention, they can start to
feel safe. And ripping those rules away
can be one of the most effective rules
in horror. And Lovecraftesque
actually does that as well because it
turns out I don't want to say any more
than this. One of the reasons that this
game has this unbelievably tight teach
where it's like these are the
incontrovertible testaments of the game
that no one can ever break
is so then later in the game player can
break them but then everyone goes what?
Taken as a whole Lovecraftes is very
good but I don't think it's amazing. I
had a terrific time with the evening I
played with it. I probably won't play
another rebing of it just because my
schedule's so tight. So, with that in
mind, who would I say should buy this
game? There are several answers to that
question. I'd say the cheapest is for
anyone who wants to trick their friends
into trying GMing. You say to your
friends, who wants to come over and play
a collaborative story game, but then
actually, surprise sucker. It's actually
kind of like a karaoke night where we
all have to take turns being the GM, but
in the most supportive environment
imaginable. It's the least intimidating
that GMing could really be because
you're only doing it for 15 minutes at a
time. You're only ever GMing for one
player, and you're doing it with a bunch
of assistants. This is very real. My two
friends who I invited to play
Lovecraftes had like a little bit of a
panic when they realized they were going
to have to GM for me, but then by the
end of the evening, they came away
really proud and thinking, "Huh, wow, I
can GM." Okay. I'd also say Lovecraft
Desk is well worth a buy for any table
of players who get hot at that idea of
the sort of reverse role playinging
where you've got five GMs collaborating
to give one player a terrible time. And
it is so entertaining how that role
rotates. Like I spent 45 minutes trying
to give this protagonist a terrible time
and then when that protagonist roleplay
got back to me I was like wait a minute
this is terrible. Finally, I'd say that
this is a worthwhile kind of research
purchase for anyone who's interested in
game design or narrative design or how
stories are told because the thing is
Lovecraft Desk has literally 20 times as
many rules as Desperation. And that
heavy machinery does work, but it
doesn't work smoothly. Like certainly
your first teach of Lovecraftes Desk,
but also probably your first game and
maybe even the first story you tell with
this game will probably be quite
jutddery. And I don't mean this next bit
as a criticism. I mean for the right
group, it could genuinely be a positive.
But this game feels like signing up to
take a pottery class together. It's
strange. It's slippery. It's
embarrassing. It's fascinating. You're
probably going to be bad at it. And yet
there's something just cool and bonding
about it. And for me, what makes
Lovecraftes something that I think
you'll really love versus something that
I think you might regret purchasing is
how much you're interested in that
slippery weird structure of not pottery,
but storytelling. Let me give you a
couple of stories from my evening spent
with Lovecraftes that show exactly why
this game is awkward, but also why that
awkwardness is cool. So, one of the
things is that you're all taking turns
role playinging as this protagonist,
right? Which means their personality
comes out slowly and as a group effort.
So, I was watching a scene where my
friend was playing that protagonist and
they said something as our character
that made me go, "Oh my god, our
character beats his child." And then
when it got back to me, I incorporated
that into my roleplay. And that player
who taught me that was like, "What?" And
then I explained it and she was like,
"Oh, oh, okay. Oh, no. Your mileage may
vary. You might not enjoy having a firm
idea on who this character is. I think
that's awesome. Or like here's another
example. You know how there's that rule
in this game that the GM's kind of
support GMs can roleplay NPCs in the
scene the GM is describing? That often
simply doesn't work. And yet it does
because the thing about being NPCs in a
horror movie is that you don't know
where the scene the GM is doing is
going. So you're like, "Yeah, yeah,
sure. I'll be this NPC." And then you're
like acting in a way, but you keep
making eye contact with the GM. Like, am
I am I doing it right? It's so awkward.
It's like being the actor in the only
performance that will ever be done of
this play and you haven't read the
script. And yet, again, the end result
is kind of cool because ideally, your GM
is reacting to things the NPC is doing
and the NPC is reacting to what the GM
is doing. And in the ideal world, you
end up with this kind of like David
Lynch dissonance where there is stuff to
be scared of in the scene, but then the
NPC is being scary in a different way.
But whatever happens, you're not going
to end up with a scene that is anyone's
like exact vision for that scene. And
actually, that's kind of what role
playing is. That's the whole point.
We're trying to keep our stories feral
and alive. So, basically, Lovecraftes is
a great horror jam session. I do just
wish it was a little simpler. and the R
design was a little cooler. Or maybe
I've just been inspired by our next game
and the final game in this episode. Get
ready for something very impressive and
very sad.
Today we've looked at some games that
are cool, sweet, interesting, or just
bonkers. But now, please join me in
sitting up straight and wiping any part
of you that may be dripping because
we're in the presence of I should not
put my arm on it. We're in the presence
of greatness. So, City of Winter by
designer Ross Cowman. Wouldn't it be
funny if this was another game about
starving to death in the winter of 1888?
It's not. This is a fantasy game about
forced migration and what a community
has to give up and what they cling to.
Well, winter is, I think, a metaphor.
Although this is still a game where your
characters are going to die, but this
game is also sad because this box costs
$160
plus shipping. The publishers actually
sent it to me with their previous game,
Fall of Magic, which costs $150 plus
shipping for a total of
$310 plus shipping. And if the
publishers hadn't sent me these games, I
would not have played them because
that's too much money even for me. and
I'm nuts. But now that I have personally
explored these games with my fingers and
face, I don't actually think that price
point is outrageous. These are beautiful
objects, handmade by a small team. And
certainly, the game design underneath
City of Winter is diesel. It is
immediate and efficient and intoxicating
and intense. But also, and by far most
importantly, you do have the option of
just buying the cheap digital version
from the publishers online and just
print and playing the game yourself,
which for a game this good, I think is
still going to make you feel rich.
That's maybe a stretch. I've printed and
played games before, and being sat there
with your paper and your scissors mostly
just makes you feel like you're in
primary school. But playing this game,
print and play, you are going to feel
rich in feelings.
Now I say it out loud, that kind of
sounds like a euphemism for mental
illness. Let's move on. These two games
are very similar. This one definitely
feels like a sequel to this one, but in
terms of what you should buy, Fall of
Magic is an homage to classic fantasy
and tells the story of a group of heroes
crossing the world with names like
Caspian Golem of Raven Hall and places
like Castle Storm Guard and Farmer's
Market. And I like it. It's good, but if
you were wondering which of these two
games to buy, for me, it's not a
contest. City of Winter is mechanically
way more interesting, and in terms of
the story it tells, it's more novel.
It's more moral, it's more worthwhile.
Let's get into it. Now, there are rules
for playing City of Winter Solo, but the
normal fullthroated experience is for
three to five players with no GM. No
one's outranking anyone else. And you
are going to be playing members of an
entire community that is crossing the
world in search of safe haven. To start,
you read the following. The Umbra is
coming and the Riverlands are no longer
safe. Our family must leave for the city
of winter to find another home. But what
is this terrifying Umbra? And what
defines the Riverlands? Well, that's up
to you and I suggest you get used to it
because from this point onwards, City of
Winter is going to be speaking to you in
sentences that top out at about four
words. And just the confidence of the
craft in this game, you can think of it
like a river boat that you and your
friends are going to get into that's
going to float you down a stream. It's
going to give you direction. It's going
to give you grandeur and it's going to
give you excitement, but it's also going
to give you
silence. Like, I cannot overstate the
extent to which this game just shuts up
and lets you tell a story. It makes
every other RPG you've ever played sound
like an aging boiler room with a
clanking rule set and ceaseless
paperwork. So, continuing setup, the
first thing you do in this game is
you're going to make a character. You're
going to give them a name and most
importantly, you're going to decide how
old they are by scribbling between one
and six pips on the corner of your sheet
with zero marks meaning you're a child
and six marks meaning you're an elder
who is sadly not long for this plot. And
the amount of marks that you made on
your character is the number of
tradition cards that you draw. Every
location in City of Winter actually has
its own unique deck of tradition cards.
But when you start a campaign of this
game, you're going to pick one of the
three starting locations that your
community is from, and you're actually
going to put out all the tradition
cards, and players can collect whatever
they want. It's fun. You're all defining
collectively what your people believe in
by grabbing these little slices like
they're cheese and deli meat at a
cultural counter. And these cards you
end up holding, these are the traditions
or cultures or beliefs or arts that you
are carrying for your people
that only you are carrying for your
people. I think maybe at this point in
the video, the smart marks in the
audience can maybe see where this
mechanic is going and are starting to
put their head in their hands, but we'll
get to that. We will. Um, the way you
actually play the game is that you're
going to take turns putting your
character's coin on the prompts of the
location where your people find
themselves right now. So, when you start
playing City of Winter, this will be
your home, where you're from. So, let's
say it's my turn. I like the sound of
this prompt. I put my coin on it. And
then I have two choices. I can either
share a tradition or I can witness a
tradition. If you choose to share a
tradition, you're going to pick another
player at the table and then you're
going to frame a scene between your
character and theirs based on the prompt
you just chose. So, let's just say I
chose floating market here. I might
describe a scene where because the umber
is coming, all the merchants have left
the market on their boats. And your
character, you're looking for food for
your family and your loved ones, and you
can't find any. And then my character
approaches and I say, "Child, don't
worry. come to my house. And we roleplay
out a scene where I teach your young
character that our people, the temple
herand always have this pot of stew that
is boiling in our living rooms at all
times for any strangers or travelers or
people in need who are coming past. We
keep that burning and we always share
it. And then I hand you the card, a pot
of river stew. And then that player
takes that card and puts it in their
hand. And what this all represents is
it's just one human saying to another
human,
I believe in this. I believe in this
enough that I'm going to try and make
you believe in it. So that is sharing a
tradition. The other thing you can
choose to do on your turn is witness a
tradition. And if you do this on your
turn, the scene you frame doesn't
actually involve your character at all.
You become much more of a GM. You just
pick another character around the table
and you draw a card from the location
that you're at or from the Umbra deck,
which is always available and is
basically the degree to which your
culture starts to become or be defined
by your oppressor or your trauma. So
yeah, if on your turn you choose witness
or tradition, you draw a card from
either of those two decks, you read the
card and then based on the prompt that
you put your coin on, so you're at the
floating market and you feel the touch
of the umbra. So rather than framing
your scene where your character says to
another person, "Hey, this is a
tradition that's important, you instead
create a moment for that character where
they see something or experience
something important." And the scene ends
the same way. You hand them that card.
And this is the game. I pick a prompt. I
share a tradition. The next player
around the table picks another prompt.
They let someone else witness a
tradition. The next player picks another
prompt. They share a tradition with
someone else. And all of this play can
feel quite gentle. You're going to kick
ideas around. You're going to do stuff
that's accidentally quite funny. You're
going to discover stuff about the world
building together. Like there's a lot of
animal imagery in City of Winter. And we
were like hours into playing when we
realized, hang on, when it talks about
like the the lions here, are they
literally lion people? Are we in the
furry universe? We decided we weren't.
And that's not cuz it's like a kink. We
just decided that animals and animal
people are.
Guys, let's move on. So, once everyone's
framed a scene, you're going to pick up
all of your coins and then decide which
location you go to next on the beautiful
scroll. Maybe you cover up the locations
you had before because that represents
the umbra eating things. Oh, no. And
then all hell breaks loose because this
is the point in the game when everybody
has to discard cards back down to their
age. Which means you all have to decide
which traditions to leave behind. And
you're going to watch in horror as that
 juicebox guzzling youth takes
that ribber stew that you so lovingly
talked them about and shiftily puts it
in the discard pile. What the are you
doing? That's a metaphor for our
people's charity. He picked that
back up. Granddad, the world is ending.
I'm trying to figure out the agents of
the Umbra. If you cared about soup so
much, you shouldn't have tried to talk
to me about it. Do you see it? Do you
see the game? That's the game. And it
only gets juicier as you put out more
decks related to all the different
environments that you travel through.
All the different people who have things
to teach you. In my home game, the very
first people we traveled with after
leaving our home was a bunch of flying
airships manned by crows. And I felt
that my teenage character just
immediately decided that life didn't
make sense to her, but it did now with
these people. I was begging other
players to frame scenes for me that
would let me witness Crow traditions. It
wasn't even a decision for me. I was
going to junk my people's historic
culture without a second thought. I even
drew a particular card that hinted and
all the other players agreed that I was
the only person who'd learned the Crow
language. I've got a new name now, Dad.
It's K. But then, imagine my horror when
once we'd all framed scenes with the
crows, the players voted and decided to
not travel with the crows anymore, but
instead go south to the caravan with the
oxen. And for me, for my character, and
like I was just really feeling what she
was feeling, this hurt so much worse
than leaving my home behind. And I was
left with this horrible choice of the
crows that we'd spent just maybe one or
two years with. Was it ridiculous for me
to try and maintain what they'd taught
me at the cost of abandoning family
traditions when I knew if I did that I'd
be upsetting everybody else? And yet,
it's not crazy because if you do make it
all the way to the city of oh my god to
the city of winter, it's got its own map
and it's a multicultural place where
players can draw from any of the decks.
How cool is that? As it happened though,
I didn't have to make any of those
choices for that character because we
drew a witness tradition umbra card that
we all decided sounded like we were
under attack. And there's a rule in City
of Winter that if there's a decision
that nobody wants to make, you can pick
up a dice to decide what happens. And we
rolled and my character died, which to a
very small extent is for the best
because the intergenerational trauma
that that woman would have inflicted on
her kids would have been horrific. like
that character's child talking to their
therapist and it' be like, "Oh, my mom
just really wanted me to be a crow
person." And then the therapist is like,
"Oh, was she a crow?" No, she spent 18
months with them 25 years ago. But death
in City of Winter, which most commonly
occurs from maxing out your age and then
failing a dice roll, is a real poignant
tragedy for a couple of reasons. And the
big one is all the traditions that meant
the most to you that you were hanging on
to,
they're all gone. Which actually means,
and this is just
god damn it, like talk about a rule that
is so simple and then transforms the
whole experience. The age you are, which
kind of acts like your character class,
drastically changes the game you're
playing. If you can only hold one card
cuz you're that young, you're trying to
decide what defines you as you become a
teenager. If you're an elder and you're
holding six cards and you know you are
soon to be merckked by the goon squad
that is father time, you are desperately
trying to tell your traditions to
everyone else and then those people can
maybe hang on to them as a favor for you
or maybe just ditch them when you're not
looking. But with like old people and
young people so obsessed with these like
quite selfish games, middle-aged people
then are the ones that try and keep the
peace, but also are focused on the
present, the people who are trying to
solve the problems in the plot right
now. And then what's just is that
everyone's playing these slightly
different games, but as you all age,
your character class is constantly
shifting. And it's extra trippy for the
old people who go from playing these
elders with a million ideas to the next
week they'll play just super young
people who technically can't even hold
the tradition. But they won't do that
immediately because and this is the
other reason death is sad in this game.
If you die in City of Winter, you don't
make a new character immediately.
Actually, what happens is you spend the
rest of the evening playing out memories
of your character.
This is so sad, you guys. So, before you
come back as a kid and the rest of the
players start trying to pack traditions
into you like they're over stuffing a
suitcase, you have to frame scenes where
those characters you're with are walking
around in the present day and they see
something and then they remember
something that happened with your
character and you role play a scene with
them from way back in your past. Maybe
it's a shouting match from when you were
alive that shows how you just drove each
other crazy. Maybe it's the twist that
you and him were lovers once long ago.
Maybe it's a scene from when you two
were super young and you asked her for
attention and she didn't give it to you
and now she never can.
>> I know, right? It's like video game
protagonist damage sound.
I'll also just mention here that if I've
made it sound like you can play City of
Winter for weeks or months, you actually
can. Um, this is kind of technically a
campaign game, but also it's not. I
think it's the best of both worlds. It's
a game you can play in just one evening,
like everything else I've covered in
this episode. That's great,
but it's just a game where you finish an
evening of it and then you can keep
going and you can keep going and you can
keep going. You just play it for as long
as you want. There's actually no end for
it. If you reach the city of winter,
game doesn't have an ending. The story
is just over.
When you decide that it is, when does
your community stop running?
When is it destroyed?
When does it find out who it is? Now,
look, I'm never going to call a game
perfect. There's no such thing. I'm also
all too aware that 95% of the people
that currently play role playing games
would rather play a silly action-packed
campaign of Dungeons and Dragons rather
than, you know, um, intergenerational
migrant conflict simulator 2023. a game
where the emotional high point is
receiving a magic sword as opposed to,
you know, being forced to discard the
tradition of why we braid our hair
because there's no room for it in your
life anymore. And you know what? If you
were to argue with me that those people
are more well adjusted and have their
priorities in order, I'd be like, "No,
but we can agree to disagree." All the
same. I think the reason the word
perfect keeps trying to like claw its
way out of my mouth is because to some
extent this game is perfect for me as a
critic because
every design decision, every rules
interaction
bursts for me like a firework. And I can
partially say that because there aren't
many rules, right? That is a harder
statement to make about a game the more
rules there are. This game doesn't have
many rules, doesn't have many
components, doesn't have many
interactions between them all, but
they're all fierce. Or like, let's put
it another way. This is a game that
comes with a god damn scroll, which is
just such a beautiful and toemic object
that people see it and then they go,
"Uh, what is this thing? Can we play
this game?" And I've got to be one of
the first reviewers to not even really
mention it. And part of that is because
I want to encourage you folks to buy the
print and play version because I do
think the price of this game is just it
I wouldn't stretch yourself to buy it.
Like save your money. Spend it on like
five other RPGs. You know, the print
version is good. But the other reason I
don't want to cover it is as awesome as
this thing is,
I think the rules are better. I there's
limited space in my word count. And if
City of Winter didn't have this scroll,
I'd like to think I'd still be talking
about it. But if it didn't have those
crystalline rules, I wouldn't cover it.
It wouldn't interest me.
And with that, that is just about it for
this episode of Quins Quest. Hopefully,
you've seen something in this roundup
that might tickle your pickle. I'll tell
you what, though. I've enjoyed working
on this video so much, I've already
started working on the next one. I'll
tell you this. For months now, months,
my friends and I have been meeting up to
test what are considered the best
twoplayer role playinging games. And
what we found,
>> I would very much like to play a
twoplayer role- playinging game with
you.
>> Really? That's actually very sweet of
you, Knowledge Knight.
>> Unfortunately, we can't play a twoplayer
game because there's only one of us,
>> right? because
I'm the only actual person here,
right?
Because out of the two of us, I'm
obviously real and you're obviously not.
Right.
Right.
Perhaps you'd like to know more about
the following. Following. Following.
Following. Following. Following.
Following.
