Heat.
[Music]
Heat. Heat. Heat.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
Greetings traveler and welcome to
Quinn's Quest, your software library or
soft brewy all about the brand new hobby
of tabletop role playing games. My
name's Quins and I live here on the CD
ROM you hold in your hot little hands. I
don't get tired and I can't escape. So,
please join me on my qu. This is going
to be a tricky review. You see, this is
what I want to review. This is
Impossible Landscapes, a book so good it
caused my breath to catch in my throat
when I read it. But it's not an RPG by
itself. No. You see, Impossible
Landscapes is in fact an epic adventure
that might take you and your friends
anywhere from 12 to 24 evenings to
complete for Delta Green. Look, I've got
the slipcase version. We've got two
books here, the GM's Guide and the
Players Guide. I'm making a mess. Delta
Green, in a nutshell, perhaps a fire
damaged nutshell extracted from a
government black site, takes core of
Cthulhu, that pillar of nerd fandom
where the works of HP Lovecraft are
boiled down into adventure fiction of
varying degrees of darkness, where
players run around firing revolves at
cultists in order to prevent the
machinations of elder gods who are on
some level inconceivable. Although that
hasn't stopped two generations of
illustrators and rule writers from
trying to conceive them. Delta Green
takes Call of Cthulhu and then slides it
100 years into the future into the
modern day. So gone are the chillies and
evening gowns and adventure backdrops
where we all need to work out how we're
going to deal with the profound racism
and sexism of the time. and instead we
get a story heavy on burner phones and
rental cars and with adventure backdrops
where we all need to work out how we're
going to deal with the profound racism
and sexism of the day. But you can see
my problem. If today I want to review
the Impossible Landscapes campaign for
Delta Green, if I'm being the best Quins
I can be, then I should really review
Delta Green first. Not just so that you
can understand the world building and
the rules that power Impossible
Landscapes, but so you can see where
Impossible Landscapes zigs while the
average Delta Green adventure zags. So
just in terms of sheer tonnage, this is
surely one of the biggest reviews of my
career. Was genuinely worried that was
going to break the table, but I've been
doing this job for 20 years. And so, let
me tell you, stupid challenges like this
simply make me feel alive again, not
like a passenger in some sort of
automated robo taxi delivering me to the
grave. But before we find out if I've
got what it takes, let me just talk
about spoilers for a second, you better
believe that the review of Delta Green
itself that's going to take up the first
half of this video, it's not going to be
a spoiler in sight.
Conversely, the back half of this video
in which I'm going to be reviewing
Impossible Landscapes, end to end
spoilers. So, if you think there's a
ghost of a chance you might one day be a
player in Impossible Landscapes as
opposed to a GM, do not scrub past this
timestamp, lest ye spoil yeelf on one of
the most ambitious RPG experiences of
all time. And for those of you who are
instead just listening to this video as
they do the dishes or whatever instead
of dutifully watching my cute face, fear
not. I will be playing this air horn,
which I guess is called a gas horn for
legal reasons and literally shouting at
you to stop the video before we get into
spoilers. So, as with a multi-stage
makeup routine, we begin with
our foundation. Here is my one-word
review of Delta Green.
It's good. And now here is my
approximately 4,000word review of Delta
Green. Buckle up, chuckleheads. If you
like TTRPGs, Delta Green should maybe be
on your radar for three reasons. First
off, it's a great horror RPG. Second
off, it's actually maybe the greatest
spy fiction RPG that anyone has made to
date. And three, here's the cool part.
Delta Green then riffs on both of these
genres to create a genre that's all of
its own. Delta Green is spy horror. It
is the X Files written by John Mccari.
This is in stark contrast with classic
Kthulu which generally hues a little
closer to adventure fiction. Oh my
goodness. Only these wealthy free
thinkers can save us now. By contrast,
your table of players in a campaign of
Delta Green represent devastatingly
ordinary people who are tapped on the
shoulder by a conspiracy group within
the US government who investigate things
that simply should not exist. Your
player character will be disposable. You
will be deniable. And you will spend
more time than any human being should
eating budget sandwiches inside of your
rental car before having a brief
encounter with something so horrible it
irreparably damages your relationship
with your son. That's not a joke. There
are exhaustive awesome rules for
precisely that. We're going to get into
them later. So that is why you should be
excited to play Delta Green. The reason
why Delta Green might instead drain your
excitement, like so much pastel colored
water leaving a bubble bath, is as
follows. This game is a window into how
role- playinging games were designed as
little as 8 years ago. Like, yes, this
is a horror game, but sometimes the most
frightening part is the layout. gird
your loins as tight as your little loins
will go. And come and take a look at
this. Acres upon acres of pages with so
little pep in the layout and so little
charm in the writing, you'll feel like
you're reading not a toy, but a
textbook. Let's get into specifics of
these two books. Delta Green's two core
products are the Agents Handbook, which
contains everything you need to run the
game, and the Handless Guide. And
listen, listen. If you take one thing
from this review, let it be this. You do
not need the Handler's Guide. This book
gives you 22 pages of solid GM advice, a
13page halfdecent adventure, and
approximately 306 pages of dead pan
unnecessary law. From lawyer controlled
quasi dinosaurian constructs to spectral
polyps to April Pleasant Crumpton. Oh,
no, wait. That's she's just a woman.
Now, as fictional encyclopedias go, I
think this book is decent. I think they
did a good job with it. The reason I say
it's unnecessary, though, is that the
vast majority of what this page count is
doing is providing GMs with like the
official canonical truth of what's
happening with all this Delta Green
weirdness. But I personally think you do
not need that. The crux of horror
fiction and spy fiction is the
protagonists never being totally sure of
exactly what that truth is. You see,
like what in the is going on here or
here? I don't think it super matters.
What matters is that your players feel
like little goldfish nibbling around the
corpse of a giant squid. Something so
big they will never be able to conceive
of its exact shape. But that means you
as a GM don't need the information in
this book because you don't need to know
either. Your job is to allude to the
outline of the squid to gesture at its
shape. If you're ever in a situation
where your players are asking you direct
questions about how the squid's anatomy
works and you're giving them honest
answers, I don't know what you're
playing, but I don't think it's Delta
Green anymore. This book, yeah, I say
this not even lovingly, but with true
distaste. This is nerd [ __ ] This is the
side of fandom that is uncomfortable
with abstract expressionism and
illusions and instead wants to know
exactly what the Babaduk is and how many
hit points it has. The only reason you
should get the Handless Guide is if you
want to design your own Delta Green
adventures and you want what you design
to be canonical. But I don't know why
you do that because in my opinion, the
reason to get into Delta Green is to
play the absolutely awesome pre-written
adventures. So, without further ado,
let's talk about the other Delta Green
book. The actual book, the rule book,
the game book, The Agent's
Hand book. I've yelled too much. I need
my water.
So, in terms of art design, this book is
a trip down a suburban looking and
characterless memory lane where we all
held RPG books to a lower standard.
Today, in 2025, for games I'm thinking
of covering on Quins Quest, the test is
usually that before I even start
reading, I can flip to any page, and
what I see there is exciting. With Delta
Green's Agents Handbook, my attention
slides off these pages like an
overstimulated egg on a non-stick pan.
All the same, I Quinn of Quinn's Quest,
nobly pressed through these
underwhelming pages to run a Delta Green
campaign. And here's the good news. You
only really need to read as much of this
book as you want to. More on that later.
But here's the other good news. you are
going to want to read this not so great
book because you see I don't actually
think the agents handbook the court rule
book is the first Delta Green book you
should buy instead I think you should
pick up one of the good adventure
anthologies read that and if Delta Green
is for you are going to be so excited to
run one of these adventures you're going
to think give me the rule book give me
the rule book I'm going to read whatever
it takes to run this campaign and that
is exactly what happened to me as a fan
of dark modern detective stories like uh
well dark also um True Detective and
Arrival. I read some of these adventures
and said I don't care how good or bad
Delta Green's rules are. I'm running
this game. And that's exactly what I
did. I called up my friends, got them
round, ran them through the introductory
module, last things last. And then we
dove straight into Impossible Landscapes
and finished that over about 12 or 14
evenings. And it was one of, if not the
most amazing TTRPG experiences of any of
our lives today, which is how we get
this review because it's the Quins Quest
guarantee that I will never review a
game on the Quins Quest YouTube channel
without running a campaign of it first.
I want to talk about that adventure. But
we got to finish our review of base
Delta Green first. And this is the point
in the review where I start becoming
real nice because it's not just that
Delta Green reimagines Cola Cthulhu.
this enduringly popular school of horror
and story design in the modern age. No,
Delta Green reboots Call of Cthulhu so
thoroughly as to remind you why HP
Lovecraft got popular in the first
place. How does it do that? Okay, as
with the best spy fiction, Delta Green's
starting point is to remind you with the
earnestness of a brick thrown through
your car windshield that you are not
special. You are not Jason Bourne. You
have no plot armor. You're just an
ordinary person trying to get by in a
world of form fillable PDFs and child
support and diabetes. Delta Green
generally expects that your day job is
going to be working as some kind of
agent for the US government. But within
this book are like 60 pages on why
that's boring. Even if you pick
something cool and schllocky like maybe
you're a detective working for the FBI
or a diplomatic atache, this game's got
your number waiting for you somewhere in
this book are 10 pages on why that job
is also boring as to how the game
actually plays. On page six of the
Warden's Guide is a little quote that
reads as follows. Delta Green is not
about stats or weapons or killing the
beast. It's about how the earth is
haunted and we're not even the ghosts.
We're merely the shadows. Super
cool. It's just, you know, it's not
true, is it? Cuz Delta Green is quite a
lot about stats. And while I would never
look favorably on a game just because
it's complicated or overly fussy, here's
the thing. In Delta Green, it kind of
works. Thing about stats is they're
boring. And the more boring the game is,
the more real the world feels. And the
more real the world feels, the more the
unreality pops when you encounter it.
Let's get my Delta Green paperwork out.
One thing I'll say at this point in the
review is that um ordinarily these big
fileaxes contain all of my sheets for
like 10, 11, 12 different campaigns I
run. Um this just contains Delta Green
sheets. This is like just a ridiculous
amount just a ridiculous amount of
paperwork. My player characters
detective notebooks. There's more
detective notebooks. There's more
notebooks. There's more notebooks. Index
cards in here. Oh yeah. No, I forgot
about the index cards. More paperwork.
Oh my god. We're going to get to all of
this stuff later. Ah, here we go. The
character sheet. Okay, so there are
elements of making your Delta Green play
a character that feel like doing your
taxes. And I'm pretty sure I'm being
serious when I say this makes the game
better. It means Delta Green smells like
paperwork. It plays not like you're
playing a role playing game, but like
you're in some government think tank
simulation of being an FBI agent. Not
only is this a game with a bureaucracy
skill, it was maybe the most used skill
in my campaign. Or like there is no game
where you want your character to be shot
less than Delta Green. Higher caliber
guns or explosive devices always have a
chance of bypassing all of the rules for
combat and just killing your character
instantly. But wait, can I? No. But
surely there's a No. But have you read
that? Yes, I have. And no, I'm sorry,
you're dead. But I'm not sorry. That
[ __ ] slaps. Even if you survive being
shot and you get your gunshot treated in
a hospital, if your character then does
anything physical like running or
vaulting a wall, you better believe
you're going to rip your stitches open
and start bleeding all over again. Delta
Green is murdering in its mundanity with
its rules for going to therapy. With its
insistence, you learn the difference
between playing an expert in law,
criminology, human or sigant. With its
six-page glossery of government, and
black ops jargon, Delta Green is the
player to your left making the most
boring mother alive. And that's who you
want by your side because when the [ __ ]
hits the fan, they are the people who
are least likely to screw up making a
car bomb in their kitchen. Which isn't
to say this game is boring. This is just
the gray abrasive concrete foundation
that the designers of Delta Green then
proceed to build their entire house on
top of. Because your player characters
are also part of a ultra secret
government conspiracy called Delta Green
that is in a secret war with
unfathomably evil entities that
civilians can't know about. In the same
way that no good is going to come of
anybody having Satan's home phone
number. But sometimes these quote
incursions enter our reality. When that
happens, Delta Green makes the call and
you and the other player characters in
your cell who might live in completely
different parts of the country are
brought together to do what it takes to
end this incursion with no witnesses. Is
the fate of the world at stake? You
don't need to know that. Is your team
the first team being sent in after this
particular incursion? You don't need to
know. And if you're lucky, you're going
to get home again, lock your front door,
and get on with your life, and just be
expected to forget what it is you
saw. But you did see that,
right? I cannot overstate how pitch
black this part of Delta Green's world
building is. Like, at least Mothership
has a sense of humor. At least Vampire
the Masquerade lets you feel sorry for
yourself. If Delta Green is about
anything in terms of artistic themes,
it's about how governments and
militaries use and discard people.
Players often don't even get a glimpse
of the things they're investigating
until the drama reaches its zenith.
Which means for so much of Delta Green,
what you're actually doing feels like
looking in a mirror, reckoning with the
fact that to get the better of these
alien forces that appear to be hunting
humanity, you've allowed yourself to
become part of a system that is just as
incomprehensible and immoral and
godlike. If you so much as hesitate on a
mission, you may be considered
compromised and your team will become
the next mission. So don't think, just
become a screwdriver in Uncle Sam's
hand. After all, all that matters is
getting home again to your mom, your
cat, to your infant daughter, right? And
anyway, you're saving the world doing
this, right?
But of course, all this talking I'm
doing is what Delta Green felt like to
me, the GM. Do you wonder what things
were like from my players perspective?
Let's pay them a visit in a new feature
for Quinn's Quest in My Knowledge
Dungeon.
[Music]
We knew going into it that it was going
to get weird, right? There's going to be
Lovecrafty and stuff. And with that in
mind, being in normal locations has this
like electricity to it. You know, in,
you know, the Resident Evil games where
you you reach a safe house and you're
like, I can just inhabit this space for
as long as I want and nothing bad is
going to happen. That kind of was how it
was for me in Delta Green is that if we
go to a house and nothing's going on,
I'm like, I can just take a bit of a
breather. I can I can relax. And then
towards the end, we were at a point
where there were there was weird [ __ ]
happening in everyday locations and I
never got a chance to take a breath. Um,
which was interesting on its own.
The final thing to tell you about the
world building of Delta Green is a
simple but mammoth accolade. This game
has the best official and fan-made
adventures of anything I have ever read.
Although, looking at the proofs for the
new Mothership book, Wages of Sin, I
think Mothership might take that crown
in a little bit. Like, there's a reason
that this is the first Quins Quest
review in which I'm doing it basically
to talk about an adventure module and in
which this month's Patreon video is me
talking about another Delta Green
adventure module. And we're in the
process of filming this shoot. I've
remembered that I haven't finished
reading this other Delta Greed adventure
module that I own and that's what I'm
going to be reading tonight in my bed in
my pajamas. It's because these books are
just good. Okay, Quins. But why are they
good? Well, I think a lot of really
great designers are drawn to Delta
Green. Okay, Quins, why are they drawn
to Delta Green? Because I think this
world being so mundane, these rules
being so mundane is simply a great
backdrop for horror. It's like if you
want to photograph something, the best
backdrop for that is often a white plain
set with nothing in it, right?
Similarly, if you want your horror to
stand out and really pop, the best
possible backdrop for that is simply our
boring ass world. But we'll get to that
in the back half of this video where I'm
talking about impossible landscapes. For
now though, I'm just going to do a
little call back. Do you remember
earlier in this video when I said Delta
Green's adventures are so good that it
made me not care about how good the
rules in this book
are? Yeah. All the same, I have played
like 14 Evenings of Delta Green, so I
didn't ask for it, but I do now have
opinions on these rules. So, let's go
for it. What do I think of Delta Green's
rules? They're good.
That's kind of a surprising conclusion
for me to have, I think, because Delta
Green is very much a traditional almost
old-fashioned RPG with none of the
innovations that have come in recent
years from the story game community.
Instead, we've got things like how many
meters a player can move in a combat
round, three paragraphs on suffocation,
we've got a whole ass box out for when
you fail an accounting role. But we'll
get to how skill checks work in this
game in just a second. I want to start
this conversation by talking about the
part of Delta Green's rule set that is
the most innovative and exhaustive, but
also the most ethically problematic, but
also, at least for me and my players,
the most juicy and fun. I want to talk
about Delta Green's rules for your
characters sanity. So, a cornerstone of
Call of Cthulhu RPGs is that as your
player characters encounter or worse,
try and understand things that do not
fit in a traditional understanding of
our reality, you start to become
overwhelmed like an ant trying to
comprehend algebra or in fact anything.
The answer, no shade on ants. I think
they're really good at their thing, but
an ant is not going to survive the
modern school system. They're getting
held back for at least two years. So,
historically, part and parcel of the fun
of role- playinging in the Cthulhu verse
has been experiencing your character's
grasp on what the world is, slipping
through their fingers like so much sand.
These are games where even if you
succeed at whatever task the GM sets in
front of you, everyone at the table
still gets a front row seat of watching
your team kind of fray and come apart at
the seams. If Dungeons and Dragons
teaches us that it's fun for your
character to become more strong, Call of
Cthulhu teaches us that it can also be
fun for your character to become more
colorful, but also more fragile.
Ultimately, it's always good for your
character role playing game to just
change as the story goes on. And Dn D's
growth offers satisfaction and an arc to
your character, where Call of Cthulhu
offers drama and tension. However, for
decades now, the role playing game
community has been wondering that maybe
playing a mentally ill person for fun
isn't cool, actually. And those
questions could still absolutely be
asked of Delta Green. Like, Delta Green
player characters might end up with
paranoia, alcoholism, intermittent
explosive order, PTSD, or other
conditions that players at your home
game might have some experience with or
might even struggle with themselves.
It's a provocative question, right? What
does it mean for a role playing game to
not only be encouraging us to be playing
pretend with these disorders, but to
list actual mechanical drawbacks of
having depression or the relative
benefits of treating these disorders
with selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitors or benzoazipam or weed or
booze? That is a question that I do not
feel equipped to answer. But I will say
this, when I ran Delta Green, I had a
table of players. Here are their
notebooks. And these players were, let's
say, not unfamiliar with the trials of
mental health. And all of us around the
table in play found that Delta Green's
sanity system was not only exciting and
immersive, but in no way in poor taste.
And fundamental to why that is, as
opposed to Colthudu in the 80s, it's
partially because this game has a better
understanding of trauma, but it's also
because this game operates from a
position of compassion. Delta Green's
big mechanical innovation when it comes
to sanity that additionally situates you
in the game's dark black coffee colored
fiction is that of bonds. When you
create a character, you name and create
people you're close to, a spouse, a dog,
a best friend. And then as you suffer
from violence or helplessness or the
unnatural, you always have the
interesting decision in the moment of
whether to keep that trauma to yourself
or projecting that pain onto these
relationships that give you strength.
Perhaps for your character that means
you lean on them emotionally. Perhaps it
means you take your frustration out on
them. Perhaps it means that when they
need you, you're not there because
you're in your own head. The result is
something much more human and
heartbreaking than the traditional Call
of Cthulhu thing of looking at a
four-dimensional egg until you go nuts.
Delta Green is about your player
character coming home to their husband
and thinking about why they're now a
worse spouse. It's a game about
finishing a session and talking to your
GM about how maybe alcoholism isn't the
right next step for your character and
googling a depersonalization disorder
and thinking that maybe that would fit
better. There are also just some really
good gamey decisions in this system as
well. Like whenever you lose sanity, you
don't just lose the points. You decide
whether to put that onto a bond and onto
who. Also, there's the ability your
character has to become adapted to
violence or adapted to trauma that comes
from helplessness. But maybe you don't
want that because you'd prefer they stay
empathetic and fragile. And again, this
is Delta Green making me fall in love
with Call of Cthulhu for maybe the first
time in my life because this is the game
saying it doesn't have to be about
tentacles or exploring other dimensions.
It can be about an exploration of how
workplaces often have so little regard
for the bodies that they're destroying
that families often provide the unpaid
labor that is the only thing that stands
between an individual and their total
destruction. So, even though Delta Green
isn't the newest game on the RPG market,
I found its rules for sanity pretty
palatable, even in the political
environment of
2025. Now, let's talk about something
that might be a little more spicy for
you. In today's political environment,
we're all reconsidering our views on the
quasi pascistic and institutionally
racist body that is American policing or
perhaps our own country's policing. And
Delta Green is a game where it's sort of
expected you're going to be playing
cops. Now, I'll start off by saying you
don't have to do this. There are plenty
of other player character professions in
this book. You just have to be someone
that the US government might tap on the
shoulder. Two of the players in my
campaign were a paranormal podcaster and
a telecommunication specialist. But
also, I do think that Delta Green
manages to provide what are essentially
cop
stories while remaining palatable even
to a flaming leftist like me. First and
foremost, this game's mercilessly
unglamorous depiction of the world does
nothing to launder the reputation of
American law enforcement. In fact, if
anything, it's quite well suited to
offer additional scrutiny to the
situation. This is, after all, a horror
game with literal subheads about how to
tamper with evidence or make bodies
unidentifiable. And at my table, at
least, my players participating in this
nightmare, authoritarianism was what
elevated Delta Green to something beyond
straight Lovecraft into something more
juicy. These players driving home at
night thinking about not just what
happened in the story, but what they
did.
That's horror that sticks to your bones.
Moving on. I'm sure that some of you out
there are losing your mind cuz we're
like 20 minutes into this review and I
haven't even told you how skill checks
work. So, let's get into it. And that's
just it. They work. Broadly, players
just roll percentile dice and try to
roll under their skill or stat. But
here's the cool part. Unless your player
character is really challenged by
something, you will not pick up these
dice. you will just succeed. If you're
playing the veteran FBI investigator,
leave the dice where they are. You
simply know the NPC is lying. If you're
a government spook, leave the dice where
they are. Of course, you can pick the
lock while avoiding all the security
cameras. If you're the skevy lawyer,
leave the dice where they are. You do
not leave evidence at the scene of the
crime. And so if you're a whole team of
players, you can simply glide through
obstacles like a hot unethical knife
through so much innocent civilian
butter. Which means investigations in a
Delta Green game simply yield their
clues to you, which is what we want in
an investigation game because it lets
you get on with the actual game, which
is figuring out how these clues fit
together. It also means the general
misery of Delta Green is made more
palatable by the competency porn that
has always been part of spy fiction.
Sure, your player character's husband is
initiating divorce proceedings, and you
can't fall asleep at night without a
bottle of rum, but you can blow a hole
in someone's torso from 20 m without so
much as looking at a pair of dice. The
final thing I'll say about Delta Green
before moving on to Impossible
Landscapes is I have said time and time
again on Quinn's Quest that it's really
important to play multiple RPGs rather
than sticking to the same system because
every different game teaches you
something about how to play better. You
take those tools, those ideas with you
into your next experience, right? And
Delta Green teaches us all a fabulously
important lesson in role playing games,
which is you can ignore whatever rules
you want. I don't mean that facitiously
and I don't even mean it as a criticism.
Let me explain. So, this is a game about
investigating otherworldly horrors that
do not obey the laws of our reality.
Right? And the designers have correctly
figured out that the best possible
backdrop for that is a hardedge reality
so mundane that if one of your players
gets run over by a sedan car, you can
tell them the exact percentage chance of
them dying at low, moderate, or high
speed. Because the more scientific and
flinty the world of Delta Green feels,
the more alien the anomalies feel. Also,
nothing is scarier when your character's
life is hanging in the balance than when
it's decided not by the GM, your friend,
but by a neutral third party, cuz let's
be honest, a GM might let you get away
with it. Delta Green
says, 36% chance you die. And so, by
God, the designers of this game set out
to offer rules for absolutely
everything. Do you want to make a role
for the accountant in your group to
siphon off funds from other government
programs to pay for your holiday in
rentals? We got those. You want the
precise order of play for running down
the stairs away from someone with a
knife? We got those. You want to know
how many hours a player has left to live
after accidentally huffing rice
in? I think that's actually too
specific. Oh, no wait. We got those. And
so when I first started playing Delta
Green, I printed out all these rule
cheat sheets and I hung them on the back
of my GM screen like I was hanging
pissing laundry. And then something
magical
happened. I didn't use them. I was happy
to have Delta Green's ludicrously
capacious rule set for when my players
wanted to do something risky and I
wanted to honor the danger they were in.
But for most of the time, sanity system
aside, because that system is like a
whole goddamn Swiss watch, except
instead of telling the time, it tells
you when it's time for Dasipam, Delta
Green was actually one of the simplest
rule sets I've ever used on Quinn's
Quest. Not as written. As written, it's
like the instruction manual for
soldering a circuit board, but how it
actually plays. And that's because
unlike most of the other games I've
reviewed on Quins Quest where the rules
are the game and then the game is the
story and then the story is the rules
and so you have to play them pretty much
exactly as they're written to get the
designer's vision under the table. In
Delta Green, the rules are there as
hardcore simulation if you want it. But
the investigations are the game and the
investigations are just clues and
dilemmas. neither of which strictly need
you to play the rules as written. All
right, so for more complicated things
that aren't covered by the rules, Delta
Green has this thing called a luck roll,
right? And the game says like maybe your
agents are like breaking into a
neighbor's house and you don't know if
the neighbor's home or not. Delta Green
then just says flip a coin.
And as my campaign of Delta Green went
on, I referenced the rules of
simulationism less and less, and I just
started doing more and more luck rolls
because my players were super into it.
And you know what? Not only was the game
just as fun, we were still absolutely
playing Delta Green. So my goodness,
there is your primer on what Delta Green
is. And now for the part of the video
where I'm going to gush like an ominous
riptide that has claimed lives and will
do so again about Impossible
Landscapes and all my paperwork for it.
Let me tell you, Delta Green, as I've
said several times in this review, has a
bunch of amazing published adventures.
Impossible Landscapes makes them all
look like after school projects. It
barely even feels right to simply call
Impossible Landscapes a campaign that
you play. Sometimes it feels more like
an artistic work that is trying to
transcend the very genre it's working
in, like House of
Leaves. And like House of Leaves, it's
not entirely successful. And yet, that
doesn't seem important when a work of
art is this ambitious and so nearly
pulls it off.
But first, if you're 20 minutes into
this video of someone talking endlessly
about an RPG, some would say that you
should reconsider your priorities. I
would say, have you heard about the
Quins Quest fan club? Previously
available as, of course, a magazine in
which you can look forward to collecting
your own 18piece dice bag. This print
publication was sadly discontinued after
issue uh two, but fear not. If you have
a modem, the Quinsquest fan club is now
available on your home computer at
www.patreon.com/quest. For just $3.99,
you get access to a frankly silly amount
of stuff. You get access to double the
Quinsquest videos. You get blog posts,
which are often like mini reviews cuz I
can't help myself. You get access to
whole seasons of Play to Find Out, the
new Quins Quest actual play series, in
which you can hear me GMing for my
friends, except we play notorious old
games from the 80s. Except that it turns
out those games were good and the
designers were cooking. We have been
blown away by the reception to this
series. Turns out you folks enjoy
listening to it just as much as we enjoy
recording it. and you get access to the
Quins Quest Discord channel, which is a
great place to meet other friendly
people if you want to play an RPG
online. Dropping on the fan club, today
is an hour-ong podcast where I talk to
two of the players from my Delta Green
campaign talking about what the
experience was like from their
perspective. We talk about cops,
mysteries, and one scene in our campaign
in which there was a protracted scene of
homosexual intimacy between two player
characters who were so far in the closet
they were practically drywall. Also on
the fan club today is a new video from
Quins Quest in which I talk about
another Delta Green
campaign. Somebody please save me from
myself. Delta Green: God's Teeth is not
a campaign I've played, so it can't get
the full Quincest review treatment. It's
also most famous for being legendarily
grim with such freakish content warnings
that I literally don't feel super safe
talking about it in my most public
channels. But I had to find somewhere to
talk about it on Quins Quest because
look, as I was reading it, you see these
tabs? These tabs all represent when I
was reading a place where I found
something genuinely mindblowing. It gave
me the unexpected sensation that I was
reading not just an adventure, but
something closer to what society
recognizes as a piece of art, meaning a
provocative expression of an artist's
emotional power and their pain. Where
you being offended by some of it feels
less like a misstep from the publisher
and more like a statement from the
creator. Because where you are or aren't
offended and what that says about you or
about humans or about America is just as
much part of the art as the actual
physical object. Only with you, the
viewer is the philosophical electrical
circuit completed. So if you want to
know what the that's all about, you
should head to
www.patreon.com/quest. And of course,
you won't be getting access to content.
you'll be funding the work that I do and
helping me to spread the love of
TTRPGs. Back to the
review. We're back. Uh, so, Impossible
Landscapes, here's what I can say as a
playerfacing, spoiler-free review. Uh,
this adventure is good. Uh, this
adventure is big, and this adventure is
a lot of work to run. So, if your GM
does run it for you, do something nice
for them. Bake them some cookies. Hoover
their bedroom. Listen to them talk about
a movie that you haven't seen. I'm going
to play the spoiler claxon now. Get out
of here. Potential players of Impossible
Landscapes. If you're doing the dishes,
press a slippery, bubbly finger to your
device and stop it now. So, now it's
just me and those of you with desires
for forbidden knowledge. So, let's start
with this one. Impossible Landscapes
isn't about HP Lovecraft at all. I told
you a second ago that if your GM runs
this game, you should do something nice
for them. Here's what my players got me.
A lovely edition of The King in Yellow,
a collection of creepy stories written
by Robert Chambers in 1895 that has
existed in our cultural imagination ever
since. And most memorably, this is about
a forbidden play that drives people mad.
This is what it is revealed Impossible
Landscapes is about. And look, the
players all signed it for me in
character. I love this gift so much.
Players still watching this video. That
was actually a pretty light spoiler as
these things go since the cover has the
words king in yellow on it and there's a
king on the front in yellow. So get out
of here. I'm serious. The very next
thing I spoil is going to be one of the
best reveals in this game. Get out. So,
Impossible Landscapes is going to take
your player characters through an
investigation lasting 20 years of the
characters's lives. That classic trope
in cop fiction, the cold case from your
past stumbles back into your life again.
And what a case it is. Impossible
Landscape starts in the 1990s with the
player characters being tapped on the
shoulder by Delta Green to travel to New
York City and investigate the
disappearance of a young successful
artist called Abigail Wright. The
players travel to her small apartment
building, a magnificent adventure site
filled with a handful of great NPCs, a
ton of unanswered questions, and
literally dozens of handouts. And the
stage is set. It's here that the players
are first going to encounter the effects
of the play, how it debilitates and
co-opts our reality. And if they're
anything like my players, one of them is
going to create a chart for every
maddening, unresolved thread they find.
This is the actual chart that he made.
And before we proceed, I'll add that
this book's art design and layout
represent a real glow up from the rule
books of Delta Green. No two pages are
quite the same. The art delicately
threads the needle between office
stationary and cursed totem. And the
scribbles and redacted apocrypha aren't
just fun. They help express to the GM
the mood you should try and capture at
the table, which is that even the
copywriting in this adventure disagrees
with itself about what the truth is.
Also, other RPG publishers, take note.
If you're putting art assets into your
book to make the book more exciting and
bring the adventures to life, make it
easy for the GM to share those assets
with the players. If I have to hold up
the book to show a picture to my
players, feels like show and tell with
toddlers. If I can print out something
and drop it on my players, that feels
cool. Feels dramatic. And so available
for download for free from ArcDreams'
website are approximately 100 handouts
if you include all the art of the key
NPCs, which are vital in a story as
sprawling as this if you want the
players and the GM to remember
everybody. And then also to help me run
this game, I actually joined an
Impossible Landscapes fan-made Discord
server. And there, I downloaded even
more fan-made handouts to share with my
players, including answering machine
messages, video files, even a trailer
that I got to share with my players
before the campaign started. I don't
particularly want to put that community
on blast uh cuz I'm worried about
wrecking it, but I guarantee you'll find
it if you look for it. Bit like a Delta
Green character. Here's maybe a more
important tip. If you just go to the
Impossible Landscapes page of the Delta
Green wiki, you will find available for
download the best, most lush fan-made
handouts for this campaign. Absolutely.
Just get them all. They are really going
to help you rev the throttle on your
campaign. But you might be wondering,
why did Quins need help to run a
campaign of impossible
landscapes? Okay. Um, do you remember
what I was saying about like the Delta
Green Agents Handbook where it's big,
but you don't need to read the whole
thing. When do GMs ever read the
entirety of a rule book? Come on,
there's not enough aderall in the world.
You read the book for a bit and then you
start skimming and then you skip a whole
section and then you go back to the
beginning again until we resemble your
aunt learning a board game while blasted
on white wine. Yeah, I get it. Let's
just play. Let's just play. Wait, what
am I doing again? But here's the thing
about Impossible Landscapes. This is not
like some D&D campaign where it's just
basically a discrete sequence of events
and locations where you read 20 pages
and then you run that and the next week
you go away you read 30 pages and you
run that. This is a
367 page book that for huge stretches of
it you have to read like a novel.
Actually it's worse than that. It's like
you're reading a novel while doing an
English literature degree and therefore
you have to take exhaustive notes. Look,
here are my exhaustive notes. Yes,
that's right. I used highlighters and
stickers to help shore up my bananjacked
attention span. I mean, I guess you
don't have to take notes if you think
the point of playing role playing games
is to like have fun or some [ __ ]
but I wanted to give my players an
unforgettable time. I wanted to run
Impossible Landscapes well. And the
problem with that is that all of the
characters, all of the events, and quite
literally all of the
locations are connected. That might not
sound particularly impressive, Quinn.
It's an investigation. Of course, it's
all
connected. No. You see, what makes
Impossible Landscape so singularly
exciting, and what makes this not a
police investigation, but a Delta Green
adventure, is that one of the ways, you
know, that the King in Yellow is
infecting our reality, is that things
like time, spatial physics, and free
will start to obey not the laws of our
reality, but his laws. Now, what I'm
about to say may confuse you. If it
does, that's good. That's a sign you
actually understand me. Because among
the many things that Impossible
Landscapes is, it is an exploration into
madness. It is a journey taking a dozen
or more evenings in which your players
will start by using logic and then
eventually will have to decide how long
they're going to hang on to logic for
and what they replace logic with in
their decision-making matrix. That might
sound like a really high fallout concept
for a role playinging game that's maybe
even doomed to failure, but players
simply found it quite natural and quite
funny. It does set the expectation that
it's going to be a a kind of detective
story or you know a puzzle. Kind of
halfway through it started to become
clear that things would probably not be
solved. And by the the last I I would
say third, I think we had really started
doing how about our characters really
started to take on their stresses and we
were like, do you know what? I don't
want to solve it anymore. I just want to
get out. Do you remember when we found
some phrase? I can't remember what the
phrase was, but I wrote it in my
notebook and then Philip would say it to
every NPC and I was like, "This is going
to unlock a door to to the other world."
No, nothing happened with that. We never
used it. And that is a profoundly common
experience of this game is like pulling
on threads that don't go anywhere. Well,
I've watched Lost, so I was already
prepared for that kind of a vibe, but I
I think if you are the kind of person
who enjoys the ride and is okay going
home and just kind of thinking about all
these loose ends, I think you'll enjoy
it a lot. Okay, let me try and explain
the physics of this, right? Um, this is
our reality. And then this is the realm
of Carcosa. And the realm of Carcosa is
capable of infecting our reality. And
when it does, you get these kind of
crossover points. Imagine the gloopy
plasma and hard scabs of an infection
site. Those are the locations that your
player characters are going to be drawn
to, that they're going to be exploring.
This isn't a game like in traditional
Lovecraft where there are portals
between one dimension and another
dimension. This is a game about places
that are both. And this gets really
funky really quickly because in our
dimension, time uh exists whereas in
Carcosa, it does not. So when people or
places or items start to become captured
by Carcosa, they start to become
eternal concepts. So, in the case of
Abigail Wright, the missing woman who
kicks off this whole campaign. What
happened to her is that she read The
King in Yellow, she became obsessed. She
finds a daughter, Carosa. She goes
through it and then proceeds to become a
kind of impermanent ghost who might now
be cited 100red years before she was
born. And this just means a lot of
terrifically spooky [ __ ] for players,
like players meeting NPCs and that NPC
remembers them from an encounter that
hasn't happened yet. Or players
realizing the actions they're taking now
are what caused events to happen to them
in the past or deliciously the players
spending a night in Abigail Wright's
apartment building. And then they come
out to discover that two months have
passed. So now, not only do they have
quite a few parking tickets, their poor
[ __ ] families have questions. And
then there's this magnificent bit of
slowb burn horror that starts maybe
about a third of the way into the
campaign where your table of players are
going to start wondering and then
realizing that they're infected, too.
And they sure as [ __ ] have to keep that
secret from Delta Green
or But then, should the investigation
cell even continue looking into the King
in Yellow when they're maybe now working
for him? Is he even a real guy? Or is he
just invented by humans as a placeholder
concept? Because all of this stuff is a
lot less scary if at least there's some
dude behind it. And if he's not real,
doesn't that then mean that your player
characters are doing something as
demented as trying to arrest a
landslide? So yeah, your poor table of
players will start this campaign in 1995
looking for a missing woman who,
unbeknownst to them, now both doesn't
exist and has always existed. And this
one lead will take them on an
investigation that, depending on their
thoroughess, may well stretch back to
1402.
They may realize that the very building
that they're investigating in was
designed by an architect 100 years ago
who may well have been working for the
King in Yellow. And if so, he's still
out there somewhere. They may well find
a dossier about the King and Yellow put
together by Delta Green before during
World War II, which raises questions as
to why Delta Green don't seem to know
about that guy. Oh god, are Delta Green
working for the King and Yellow? But
best of all, your players will find a
raft of clues that won't make sense to
them until after that 20-year time skip
when suddenly the campaign is now set in
2015. That took me a second. And so,
yeah, in this campaign, every little
thing is connected to every little
thing. And if it doesn't seem like it
is, that could be because you're not
looking hard enough, or it could be
because it simply isn't connected yet.
Words alone cannot describe how much
this game is just the Charlie Kelly Pepe
Sylvia meme. Right down to the fact your
players are going to be chain smoking in
cheap shirts. But in a game all about
madness, here's the part that's
genuinely crazy. This campaign is
obviously going to be catnip for players
who love to take notes and thinking
deeply about a puzzle and just earnestly
engaging with playing pretend being a
detective. But if you've got someone at
your table who doesn't like to take
notes, in fact, if you've got a whole
table of players who just want to show
up, drink a beer, and kind of relax,
which now I think about it, probably
describes a fair few real life police
officers, Impossible Landscapes will
work almost as well as an experience for
them, too. How can that possibly be? it
be. Because while yes, this game is
designed to offer a deluge of
thoughtprovoking twists to players who
are paying attention, it is also
designed to float players through the
beginning of the plot right the way
through to the end like a lazy river
with no difficult puzzling involved at
all. And this is baked into the plot
because what in other role playing games
would be considered narrative
contrivances in Impossible Landscapes
represent you being caught in the king
in yellow's web. You are going to go
where he wants because he is a timeless
immortal spider weaving riddles and you
are four hungover cops in a Prius. Where
impossible landscapes is demanding
almost laughably so at times is for the
GM. And this is how I ended up in a
Discord server full of GMs who'd run it
before with questions about the
motivations of NPCs that I didn't
understand or questions about pacing. I
was asking them things like, "Aren't my
players going to be just completely
baffled by the end of act one?" And then
the GMs in the server were like, "Yes."
I'm sure there are plenty of GMs
watching this who have already created a
new tab and ordered this game before the
review is even over. But if that's not
you, if you're interested in running
this but maybe a little intimidated, I
should add that all of this work I am at
least in part complaining about was at
least for me fun as [ __ ] Yes, it's a
lot of work, but I enjoyed every stroke
of the pen because like, okay, I know
there are some GMs out there who GM
because they have to and they would
really rather be a player. But if you
are a GM who does it because you enjoy
seeing the look on your players faces
when you delight them, this book is like
a heavy briefcase full of stuff that
lets you delight your players. And so
like every stroke of the pen as I was
making notes or me bringing out my ruler
or getting my highlighter, all of that
is tinged with anticipation that my
players are going to love that. My
players are going to love that. And like
the game does definitely meet you
halfway. Like yes, you have to do a lot
of preparation, but don't forget you
have a hundred handouts to give out to
your players and they are so good. Don't
just each represent teasing clues.
They're almost uniformly creepy. Your
players are going to be so excited to
receive them and examine them and then
say things to each other like, "Oh, oh
no, look at this." And then also, you're
going to be taking the top of your
players's heads off because I guarantee
they haven't played a horror RPG quite
like this one because Impossible
Landscapes is doing a lot of work
breaking new ground in the genre of
surreal horror. Think less Lovecraft and
more the films of David Lynch. Then of
course the scale of this adventure
brings an excitement all of its own.
Generally investigations and horror are
both powered by anticipation, right?
That's what makes players excited to
receive clues, to anticipate the next
thing, to think about how they're
connected, to come back for the next
session. But then in impossible
landscapes, what you are unveiling
literally never stops because what's
underneath this tarpalling that you're
removing is simply too big. Anticipation
just builds and builds. There's always
more to discover. Twist after twist,
often multiple times in one session,
even right up to the last session of the
campaign where there's still more to
discover. There's more to discover. But
the campaign's over. The play's over.
the house lights go
off. I wanted to do that with my toe,
but the extension cord wasn't long
enough. And so long as we're talking
about the scale of this campaign, I'm
not sure I have ever heard my table of
players shout louder in anything I've GM
than when I introduced the big time skip
in this story. When I said to my
players, "Okay, that's the end of act
one." And your player characters go
their separate ways and do not see each
other again for 20 years. They all just
exploded. And it's something I'm
absolutely stealing from other campaigns
that I run. Players have their minds
blown when they have to imagine their
25-year-old character as 45. And you see
who's divorced, who's got a kid, who's
now flown the nest. And even more
heartbreakingly, who among your table of
players has stayed exactly the same?
Never before on Quinn's Quest have I
reviewed something where I'm so excited
to release this video simply because it
means I know tables of players around
the world are going to get to experience
this. That's a big statement coming from
me. However, you watching this video
actually have an opportunity to make
your campaign better than I could make
mine. And that's because if we imagine
the work of creating this epic book as
running an ultra marathon, like the
designers did it. They did cross the
line. They did complete the marathon.
But as you get from acts one and two
into acts three and four of this book,
it becomes maybe clear that the author's
feet are bleeding and they've maybe peed
their pants a little bit. So if you've
been convinced by this review and you're
going to run Impossible Landscapes,
here's my advice. Part one of this book,
The Night Floors, absolutely superb. Run
it exactly as written. Enjoy it and do
not rush it. Then we get part two of
this book, A Volume of Secret Faces.
Again, don't rush it, just enjoy it.
It's impossible landscapes at its best.
Players are getting more clues, but
they're also connecting up clues. The
danger starts to escalate. Now, I maybe
rushed part two of my campaign a little
bit because I thought, I've got to keep
up the pace. We've still got parts three
and four to get through. Actually, we
kind of didn't. So, parts three and four
of this book, while absolutely huge in
scope, if you're paying attention, you
will notice that they have less than
half of the page count of parts one and
two. They're not super finished. They're
a lot more vague. At this point in my
home campaign, parts one and two had
been so good, I had no reason to doubt
Impossible Landscapes. I thought, I'm
just going to keep doing what I did
before. I'm going to run part three
exactly as it's
written. But actually, this is the point
in the campaign where I think the very
talented author of Impossible
Landscapes, John Tines, starts to get
tired. and I was too tired from running
his campaign to notice. So, basically in
part three, the players are on the run
from the cops and from Delta Green, and
they can kind of go anywhere. They can
do anything. And there's lots of spooky
ideas for what might happen to them, but
there's not really an adventure, per se.
It's super duper directionless. And if
you think it's weird that I didn't
notice that I, the GM, had to make sure
to provide some direction, what can I
say? I was just absolutely crosseyed
from trying to fit this entire book in
my head. And then we have part four, the
end of the world of the end. And in this
part, there is an adventure, but it's
bad. Basically, the players get to the
nightmare of Carcosa, and then they have
to struggle through it to reach the
party at the end of the world where
they're going to have the final showdown
with the king in yellow. But for a
campaign that up to this point has been
powered by surreal horror and now is in
the literal realm of nightmares, part 4
isn't super surreal and it's not super
horrifying. It feels like a goth
obstacle course. So for GMs who are
really trying to get the most out of
Impossible Landscapes, I think you've
got a couple of options. One of which is
to run parts one and two exactly as
written and then to just shoot the game
through parts three and four as fast as
possible. The thing about parts three
and four is you can make the players
being on the run from the law and their
journey through Carosa really short, but
that to me doesn't feel like making the
most of this book. I think there's
another option for more ambitious GMs,
and that is to run parts one and two
exactly as they're written and then kind
of write the game itself. You've got
kind of this Sam Wise Gamji at Mount
Doom thing going on where John Tines
cannot carry the ring all the way to
Mount Doom, but you can carry him. I
would say that when you finish part two,
it's not a terrible time for the games
master to take an intermission. take
like a month off the game, ask your
players what threads they want to
investigate and where they might want to
go in the United States, who they might
want to talk to, and then take all of
the cool ideas in part three to use them
as like fuel, and then write that
adventure yourself. Two of my favorite
pages in this book are what happens in
part three if the players try and
contact their families. And it's some of
the most disturbing, surreal horror
you've ever read. And then at part four
where the players actually enter Carosa,
the realm of madness. It should surely
be like the bits of a David Lynch movie
that were left on the cutting room floor
for being too weird. And it's not that.
The adventure as written reads like Call
of Duty DLC. Like there are two
genuinely great terrifying high concepts
in this chapter, but I don't think it
really delivers on either of them. And
the first is that Carcosa resembles this
European city that has stuff in common
with other European cities, but none of
the players recognize. And the reason
why that is is because it's a city that
used to exist on planet Earth until
Carcosa swallowed so much of it that it
deleted it entirely, not just from our
reality, but from our memory. And then
that raises the stakes because it's
saying to the players, hey, if you don't
succeed here, Carosa could swallow more
cities or even the whole world, trapping
the inhabitants here forever. But the
book doesn't super spell that out, so I
think you should. And then the second
idea is that because the people in
Carosa have swallowed some wars over the
years, there is a war going on here that
never stops. And the people fighting it
and just trying to survive it are
having, let's just say, a bad time. You
got to breathe life into these ideas a
bit, I think. But also, it's the realm
of madness. Just completely cut your own
creative breaks. Accept your players
ideas, too. Accept them harder than
you've ever accepted them before. Take
your players favorite scenes from act
one, and just do them again. Go full
being John Malovich. Have trucks full of
soldiers coming in, except every soldier
in the truck is that one player's wife.
Take NPCs that the players love, and
then make the players kill them. Take
NPCs the players hate and then make the
players fall in love with them. I don't
know. I'm not saying chapter 4 has to be
amazing. And it doesn't even have to be
long, but this is potentially the
greatest campaign I've ever run. And
this is the end of it. It should just
have a little more juice. But the good
news on that front is the very very end
of this book, the party at the end of
the world that the players are trying to
get to is
just beautiful. I got such a wild
adrenaline rush when I sat down to GM
it. I told my players the king in yellow
himself was arriving in 60 minutes. I
put a timer on the real life table in
front of my players with 60 minutes on
it and we played. Of the four player
characters who got to the end of my
campaign of Impossible Landscapes, one
of them got out of Carosa clean. One of
them escaped in the worst way
imaginable. One of them was erased from
ever having
existed and one of them had actually
died weeks before and was playing a
ghost and everyone knew it but that
player. And even though the campaign I
ran was far from perfect, for my
players, it was maybe their favorite RPG
they'd ever played.
It's a very interactive game to start
with. You know, you've got all the
handouts. There's there's so much to
look at and pour through and and kind of
obsess over. And on top of that,
spending a lot of time
just out of the game talking about these
individual kind of threads. I felt very
connected to the people around the table
doing that. You know, it felt like it
felt like a team. But I think the fact
that it is a bit flawed is the thing
that makes it so interesting. We say
this about all the media we enjoy, which
is like we'd rather have something
flawed and unique than something perfect
and boring. And this campaign has more
than anything else I've played, you can
feel the authoral intent. You can
feel them telling you a story through
your actions. It's kind of a miracle
really to have it like be completely in
your control at the table, but then also
feel like you experienced what someone
else wrote and was trying to
say. Woo! We did it everybody. We did
it. We made it to the end of the biggest
Quins Quest review ever. This is the
first time I've reviewed an adventure
module on Quins Quest, but I really
don't think it's going to be the last. I
truly find it bizarre how many people
who love tabletop role playing games
don't touch pre-written adventures. I
kind of know how we got here. Um, I
understand that most people run Dungeons
and Dragons and most of the official
adventures for the current edition of
Dungeons and Dragons aren't particularly
inspiring. I also understand that for a
lot of people GMing is their creative
outlet and so designing your own
adventure and where all the orcs go is
the fun bit. I also understand that
there's a certain charm to adventures
that you know your GM has made just for
you. But like to all the GMs out there,
my folks, can we
just admit when we're beaten, it's not
just that I don't think I could ever
write an adventure that's half as good
as this. I don't think anything I do in
my entire life will be anywhere near as
epic as this. But also like just because
this is a pre-written adventure doesn't
mean that in the act of me running it,
it becomes creative and it becomes
homespun. The dozens of NPCs that I had
to embody for this campaign are still
me. My players were still making
decisions that were purely them. And
when I reacted to them, it created an
alchemy that was still us. And I'm sure
you'll hear more about my home campaign
of Impossible Landscapes in the next
installment of my campaign reports
video, which will be live on the Patreon
in a few months. The point is, I don't
love pre-written adventures because they
somehow just save me work. Because
obviously reading this book and
preparing to run it is a ridiculous
amount of work. I also don't love
pre-written adventures because they save
me from having to be creative because of
course you still have to be creative.
Writing a play is creative and so is
directing a play. I love pre-written
adventures for the same reason that I
love different RPG systems, which is
they let me get to places that I could
not get alone. They let me step into
another GM's imagination, drape myself
in the shimmering yet salow colored
cloak of their inner world. and they let
me and my players achieve things that we
could not achieve by ourselves. Thank
you so much for watching everybody and
this campaign book is just the start.
Don't forget that today on the Patreon
I've got a whole other video talking
about another completely different
brilliant Delta Green campaign. So head
over to patreon.com/
