[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Hello everyone. Join me, Quinc, on my
quest to review the world's best TT
RPGs. And there are so many of them.
They're as limitless as the human
imagination. Just imagine a quest that
never ends.
But stories should end.
We're reviewing a fantasy TTRPG today.
And you know what that means? Swords.
Horse. This guy. Now, I know what you're
thinking. You've played a fantasy RPG
before. Swords, horse, that guy. You've
seen it all before. You come to Quinn's
Quest for something different. And what
could be less interesting than dungeons
and/or dragons. But listen, nobody knows
better than me that there are an
unfathomable number of fantasy out there
right now. I have spent the last few
years trying to fathom them, and mostly
I've come away indecisive and annoyed
and often quite hungry. Picture me
grumpily closing about 18 different tabs
of research in my web browser because
all of these games look kind of cool but
also kind of expensive and also I want
my fantasy games to feel fantastic. And
there is something about all of these
games competing for one another's market
share and borrowing one another's ideas
like crabs in a bucket that makes them
all feel like the furthest thing from
fantastical. And then I read Mythic
Bastion Land, a game that does the three
things that I need. It is truly
fantastical. It is a fantastic design,
and most importantly, it stands utterly
apart from the crowd. A game that
captures the nostalgic magic of RPGs
from the 80s with hex's and cruelty and
mystery, but also is so forward-looking,
it maybe feels like it was sent back in
time from the future. a game I didn't
simply run a big campaign of to do this
review because that's the Quins Quest
guarantee. You can always expect me to
run a full campaign of the games I
review before I start writing my script.
But where me and my friends after we
finished our campaign of Mythic decided
we were going to find or make or steal
the time required to continue our
campaign after this review is finished.
That's no longer me being professional.
That's just gluttony. And are you ready
for the really crazy part? I mean, this
book is like made up of nothing but
crazy parts. It's like hanging out with
Mr. Potato Head if he was also smarter
than you. So, first off, this seems like
a pretty big book, right? Well, that's
only because more than 23 of it is this
me soaked mail order catalog of 72
freakish nights you might play and 72
epic problems that your players might
conquer on a good day, but where no good
thinking individual could blame you for
getting absolutely
other crazy things. this is a game that
would support players who want to play
it for just two evenings, but also
support you if you wanted to play it for
two years. Or how about the fact that
this book offers epic experiences like
war and administrating your realm, but
it actually has just 16 pages of rules?
Or how about the fact that this game has
my favorite combat system that I've ever
seen in a fantasy RPG?
There is a catch, though.
Let's get my campaign notes out. Oh, my
dice. Never leave a man behind. So, one
of the reasons that Mythic Bastion
achieves so much is that designer Chris
McDow is a beast when it comes to
writing sentences and rules that do a
lot with a little. But the other reason
that this game is so singular is that
other TTRPGs are like an opportunity for
you and me to use our imagination.
Mythic Bastion Land is like a 200page
ransom note saying you will use your
imagination. This game is like Chris
McDow taking you to a cliff edge and
strapping you into the hang glider that
he built in his garage and you say, "Oh
gee, Chris, what are we going to do with
this?" And he puts an arm around your
neck and says, "You're going to fly."
Are you ready for a review? I'm ready
for a review. Let's get into the
rippling set of pistons that is how this
system works. But first, let's stay
hydrated.
Opening this book, the first thing
you'll find is the meest sneeze of a
rule set that at once covers everything
you might want to do and also seems to
want to leave your company like it
thinks you might have a disease. Like,
okay, here's how you make a dungeon.
It'll always have six points, two
dangers, one treasure. Here's how you
travel. It depends if you have a horse.
Here's what your stats look like. You've
got four of them. What? No, you don't
have any skills. If you want more
paperwork, quit bothering me and go
apply for a loan. This book teaches you
the rules like there's someone stood
behind you it needs to teach next. But
let's be clear, these rules aren't just
super short, they're also super sharp.
It's like Chris McDow is disinterested
in all the conversations about whether
rules should provide a story or a
simulation. Chris instead thinks, is it
simple and is it fun? I'll give you one
case study in this. So, at the end of a
session of Mythic Basting Land, everyone
around the table has to decide how much
time passes before you pick up the story
again. And for everyone around the table
whose character now becomes old, the
rule for that in the book is like so
funny and so true and so sad that when I
read it, it was like a spear through my
chest. Basically, you just reroll your
stats and if you get higher than what
your stats were, your stat stays the
same. But if you roll lower, that's your
new stat. Was your character defined by
their high clarity with keen instinct,
lucid mind, and shrewd eyes? Not
anymore. You now have a poor instinct,
an unlucid mind, and bad eyes. The other
players in your party are going to be
like, "Sir Dunston, please. It's time.
Give us the magic sword." You're going
to say, "You listen to me and you listen
good. You could go yourself." Or if you
look in the section, sorry, in the page
on warfare, Chris says that if you get
about two dozen people fighting
together, the game calls that a war band
and you basically treat it as a single
large enemy that is immune to the
player's normal attacks. Is that the
best way to simulate mass combat? Who
cares? It's simple. It's evocative. And
it's a game. The GM can introduce that
rule in a single breath. Your players
around the table are all going to start
panicking until they realize that as
knights of the realm, this is a game
about knights. I should have mentioned
that. Everyone plays knights. It's it's
it's knights the game. They realize that
they can start assembling war bands of
their own. So Dston, we know you're in
there. Come out. I've got 20 lumberjacks
with me carrying axes. Hand over the
sword. Oh,
okay. Now, the risk when you're
designing a game that's as minimalist as
this, where it's like the designer wrote
it with every keystroke costing them
money, is that sometimes the game can
get a little lost along the way. The
reader, you and me, can finish the book
and think to themselves, cool, I still
don't know how to run this game. And for
a case study in this, you could look at
Ultraviolet Grasslands. Now, I love this
book. It's so trippy and I would
recommend people buy it just to read it.
Sorry, I've been completely thrown off
my game by this awesome piece of art of
a woman free soloing her face, but I'm
never going to run this game because I
don't know how. I think that bit got
lost somewhere among all of the sensient
sunflowers and womb factories. I'm very
happy to say that Mythic Bastion Land is
the furthest thing from this. The rules
are written with this spectacular
clarity. The procedure of this game all
fits into place as you read it. And if
anything doesn't make sense, this book
has one of the best examples of play
I've ever written. Read. I didn't write
this book. It wouldn't make sense why
I'm being so positive about it, though.
But that would be biased. The examples
of play are indexed by the exact type of
scene you might be having trouble with.
And with a sort of director's commentary
in the sidebar with such marvelously
humanizing stuff as, "Yeah, I think in
this scene, the GM basically forgot
about this mechanic." and you can see
how they're struggling to make the scene
work without it. Before writing this
review, I spoke to designer Chris McDow
about his design process. So, let's
visit him now in my knowledge tower.
What I've always tried to do is what I
call rules light, flavorheavy, which
sounds like very sort of cringy
marketing copy, but what what I kind of
mean by that is certainly when I started
designing games, it felt like there were
lots of rules like games that were just
like one page, but were also like super
generic. Like it would either assume
that you were just going to use it to
run D and D dungeons or it was just like
a generic thing where I was like, "Oh,
you can play anything with this." And
then all of the games that were super
like flavorful were like monstrosities
like you know Rifts. All these games
that sort of sounded like they had lots
of really juicy cool flavor but were
just like completely daunting for me to
play. And you know Warhammer Fancy
Roleplay being a really good example of
that. So trying to thread the needle of
having rules light but with lots of
flavor is something I've always tried to
do.
So, with the rules and the examples of
play, that's about 40 pages. And then
the entire rest of the book is made up
of those 72 nights and 72 profoundly
evocative myths, little baby adventures
that your players might face. There's
only one word for this. It is a stupid
amount of creativity and labor. 72 is a
high enough number that you really can't
grasp how big it is. I keep browsing
this book and finding new ones I still
haven't read, which feels magical. It
feels mythical. And all 144 of these
pages are beautifully illustrated by
artist Alex Sorenson. And his work is
full of all these little references to
the lush text of the page, making Mythic
Bastion Land a great coffee table book
in its own right. However, in stark
contrast to Mythic Bastion Land's
crystalline rules, these pages may
appear when you read them to be
threateningly vague. Sure, these knights
have names and property and abilities
and passions and even a poem. But what
they don't have, what you will want to
shake the book to see if it falls out is
any explanation of what Chris is what
he's really on about. Basically, if
you're the key knight, nobody is going
to tell you why you're carrying around a
bag full of baby teeth. If you're the
tiger knight, nobody's going to tell you
why your horse has tattoos. If you're
the bone knight, you can learn things
from the bones of the dead, but only by
acquiring bones from the living, but
only by trading other bones with them.
And so that player can look forward to
playing an entire ass other micro RPG
where they're always looking for bones
and asking people if they have any
bones, which is like great obviously,
but you're also going to be like, "Wait,
what?" But the game's moved on. It's
talking about the salt knight now, or
the violet knight with her ability to
project light that only bees can see. It
sounds like I'm making this [ __ ] up. I'm
really not. But if the players are
scratching their head for the GM, it's
so much worse. For the GM, it's like
they've signed up to an entire course in
head scratching at an online university.
These myths that you're going to be
running are like whole adventures,
right? But you have to divine what that
adventure actually is at your table from
these sweet little fragments that lie on
the page like a shattered chocolate bar.
You get six tur scenes that get
increasingly marvelously dire if players
don't do anything, allowing the plot to
ferment. You get maybe three stat
blocks, one batshit random table, and a
goddamn oldie English poem that at my
home game whenever that content was
introduced, I liked to freeze the game
and ask my players for a moment of
silence so I could read the poem and we
could all feel the words harden at our
table and in our imaginations like so
much frost. Not all that grows is good
and fair. not all from above
an answered prayer. And then my players
are like, "What the does that mean?" And
I'm like, "I don't know, dude. Good
luck." But there's a lesson to be
learned in this gorgeous art or these
fabulous poems, which is that these
details are such lovely finishing
touches as to tell you that these pages
are finished. So when you look at them
and you think, "Well, this seems a
little incomplete." And then when you
complete them by the GM presenting them
to the table and filling in the gaps
themselves or the players proddding them
and then as a group of people you
figuring out what this myth is, that's
the game. That is the point where your
hang glider has taken off and your feet
are no longer touching the ground. And
yet at the same time, and this is very
important for my personal enjoyment of
Mythic Bastion Land, this game is the
furthest thing from a blank canvas. This
is why I like to play different games.
It's because when I sit down to play
them at my table, they help me to
present something that will feel to my
players as new and exciting, help us to
tell different kinds of stories. And
what I'm looking for when I'm deciding
on new games to play is that I want my
voice, my fingerprints, the light in my
eyes to become that of the person that
made the game. So yes, part of this game
is figuring out who this knight is or
what this story is. But what I can
guarantee you is that it will always
feel like mythic bastion land. It will
feel eerie and portentous and unmorted
from time and it will taste like a
mouthful of earthy psychedelic
mushrooms. It's just that at your table
you might take a bit more inspiration
from King Arthur or from the more modern
fable of Elden Ring or perhaps from some
more cursed subject matter entirely.
Okay, let me do my job. Let me talk a
bit more concretely about how you turn
these 72 nights and 72 nightmares into a
game. And in a lot of ways, this is
where Mythic Bastion land starts to get
really impressive because staring at
these pages and seeing what world
building emerges in your imagination,
that can be a little foggy. But the
systems involved in how you actually run
this game, it's as intelligent and
powerful as human musculature. Let's
stay hydrated.
So, the first thing that you're going to
do in your campaign is make your own
personal realm made of hex's that your
story is going to take place in. And
here's a realm from my actual home game
that took ideas from me and everyone
else around the table. So, here's our
mountain range that curves outward and
backwards like an inclined climbing
wall, meaning the sunlight never touches
these barren badlands. And then I
illustrated it using some very cute,
very fun software called Hex Kit that
you can find on it.io or also in the
description of this video. Now, making
your very own realm might sound like a
lot of work. But like everything in
Mystic Bastion Land, it's neither a lot
nor is it work. And that's because this
game tells you exactly what to do. And
no more. Who lives across the sea? Who
lives over that border? I'll tell you
who. It's Baron von. Stop expanding our
scope. Who are the gods? Ah, don't
worry. The book tells us this. Some
people are into stars and some people
are into trees. Perfect. What do you
mean? That's only two sentences. Just
stick to the plan. Get some terrain
types in there. Maybe a river. Maybe
treat your players to a poison swamp.
And then, I feel like I'm teaching you
how to bake muffins or something. You're
going to add the seat of power where the
ruler lives and three smaller towns.
Finally, the games master gets to go
away and fill this world with stuff. Do
you have to be creative? If you want, or
you can snuffle up ideas from the bottom
of the book's pages, which are populated
with them. Perhaps you place a secret
vineyard on the other side of some fire
nettles. Or perhaps one of your players
annoyed you recently by not
complimenting the nice musaka you made
them. And so outside of their home, you
put a glue bog. Also, this is fun.
Landmarks are only found at the bottom
of the myth pages. At the bottom of the
night pages is stuff the GM just always
needs, like people, names, traits,
states, animals, and objects. So if the
GM ever needs one of those things, this
whole book acts like a demented random
table. And then bam, you got a name like
Roose or people like violent playwright
and objects like a shame gem or animals
like Wolfie Hedgehog. And let's see what
mood the hedgehog is in when you find
it. It's thinking. So once you've got
your realm, which you could literally
design in 5 minutes, or you could design
in five evenings, if you're on some
friends in the table ass friends in the
table, that would be a very different
show. Friends at the table ass kick
where you want world building that's fat
and overripe. What you need next is your
player characters. You're going to need
your knights. But with 72 knights in
this book, how are you going to choose?
Well, that's the neat part. You don't.
With the cosmic unfairness of being born
in real life, you grab a d6 and a d12
and bam, just like that, you're the
gallows knight. You can speak to
animals, but only if they're gross and
you feed them. Also, your unique method
to restore your spirit is complaining to
somebody you've just met. And yet, even
if you wanted the war knight and got the
dove knight, if you wanted the dove
knight and got the pigeon knight, if you
wanted the pigeon knight and got the
ghoul knight, there is something so fun
about being given one of these freaks
and just being told, "Yep, that's your
player character." Before you've even
started in session one, this story has
slipped the leash and is running off in
an unexpected direction. Also, this
situates you as a player in your
character because thematically each
knight is kned by a seer, sinister
people who are ostensibly on your side
and know literally everything and for
whom Chris McDow and Alex Sorenson
reserve their most disgusting handiwork.
And the game implies you don't choose
what knight they're going to make you.
Congratulations, you're the rune knight.
Here's a stone pillar you have to drag
around for the rest of your life and a
glass vial that if you shake it scares
birds. You got this, kid. Who's next?
Players then roll their stats, which is
simply vigor, clarity, spirit, and then
you got guard, which is like your
ability to fend off attacks without
getting hurt. And holy crap, you thought
the role to see what knight you were was
cruel? With these stats, there won't
just be knights around the table that
are better fighters than one another.
They'll be better people as well. And
look, if we were playing Dungeons and
Dragons here, no one sat around the
table would want their player characters
to be so much worse than everyone
else's. But in Mythic Bastion Land,
where the game is watching all of these
random elements arrive, like so much
haunted conveyor belt sushi, and then
letting the story that comes out of that
stun all of you, having a player
character who's worse is only bad if the
game is about being useful. And the game
here is not about being useful. It's
about myths. One player in my home
campaign did happen to roll incredibly
well for his spirit and his guard. And
the fact that he just outclassed
everyone else powered the whole plot. It
led to jealousy and tension and real
bravery from the rest of the knights who
knew he was the king in waiting and he'd
probably be okay in any fight. But they
knew they might die, which sort of meant
that they were the real protagonist of
the story because they were the
underdogs. They had so much more to
lose, especially because Mythic Bastion
Land is not a game designed for you to
succeed. What problems await your
knights? Will they defeat them? Will
they even try to? You don't know until
you start playing. Because this game is
devoted wholeheartedly to the best thing
in tabletop role playing, which is that
moment where you're waiting for a player
to make the call, or you're waiting for
the dice to stop moving, where the whole
plot hangs in the balance and nobody
knows what's going to happen next. Like
the moment between a basketball being
thrown and it landing in the basket or
just ricocheting off the rim. I'll
explain. Let's talk about the final bit
of setup that the GM does before you
begin. The last thing that happens
before you start your plot is maybe the
single most exciting bit of GM prep I
can ever remember doing. That's not
hyperbetan. The GM takes that d6 and
that d12 and rolls them six times to see
which six myths are about to threaten
your realm. So, in my home game, the
first thing I rolled was a pack of
wolves that were not acting like wolves
anymore, and a goblin who was interested
in buying and selling prized possessions
such as horses, but also secrets. But in
your game, you might roll not a
creature, but a thing like an oursed
crown or the sun breaking bad. Or you
might roll a situation like a great
night coming home. Or you might roll a
great night coming home dead. Or you
might get one of my favorites, a hole
opening in the ground and people coming
out that are just listed as whole folk,
little ones of the hole. And then you,
the GM, do not tell the players what you
rolled. You just pick the six hex's
where these myths kind of live as if
you're playing medieval mind sweeper. A
hole's opened here. The crown can be
found here. The sun shines here. Or it
used to, I guess. And just like that,
believe it or not, you're ready to start
playing, which might feel unusual. Your
players are going to be frowning at
their knights. The GM is going to be
frowning at the myths they rolled. And
all of you are going to be frowning at
this map that didn't exist this time
last week. A map that at once feels
straightforward, but also packed tight
with mystery, like you're looking at the
paper map of a video game that none of
you have played. And you're probably not
going to feel ready. My friends and I
certainly didn't feel ready. We took our
first steps into this world like we were
walking onto a lake only to discover
that it was in fact frozen solid. It did
in fact hold our weight and we could
proceed. And this when you start playing
is the point that Mythic Bastion Land
goes from beautiful into true game
design sorcery. But first, if you're
enjoying this video, would you like some
more? I'll go further. Would you like
double the Quins Quest content, but
where I have even less of a filter? The
Quins Quest fan club was of course
previously available as a magazine in
which we really hoped that readers would
be able to collect their own 18piece
dice bag, but the magazine was of course
very sadly discontinued after issue two.
My apologies to the entire editorial
team. Sam, Mandy, Max, Sandy, Ma'am, and
dearest Nandad, I so appreciated you
relocating to Stoke, but I'm sure you'll
relish the opportunity to relocate back
out again. But the Quinsquest fan club
lives on. We're on online at
www.patreon.com/quest.
You'll find blogs, pods, vlogs, and
disc. There's a Discord channel where
people spend literally all day talking
about TTRPGs and saying things like,
"Oh, I'd really like to play this game.
Would someone like to play this game
with me?" And someone else says, "I'll
play that game with you." And then they
play the game and it's all very
wholesome. Dropping on the fan club.
Today is my full hourong interview with
mythic bastion land designer Chris McDow
in which you can hear him actually
complain about his own demented decision
to write 72 knights 72 myths and 72
seers. You can also hear me gently
suggest a way in which his game could
have been better. And you can hear him
diplomatically tell me no Quins that
would have been worse. but also on the
fan club like right now today. Now, if
you like me talking about RPG systems,
I've got a video talking about the
systems that made me. As soon as I sat
down with these books, a blast of
ancient teenage dust just came out and
it they stink, frankly. So, that video
that's live now isn't so much a trip
down memory lane as a marathon in which
I talk about what captured my young
imagination to play these games. It's
what I remember fondly about these
systems and where the stories I told
went. You'll hear me talking about the
epic D and D module that I ran three
times for three separate groups and made
me a fan of role playing games for life.
You'll hear me talking about my
disastrous campaign of Traveler, which
is now back in Vogue. Back then, I had
no idea what I was doing. I'll even talk
about the campaign I played with my
exclusively white friends in problematic
Asian inspired RPG Legend of the Five
Rings, in which we told the story that
mostly centered around our honor. You
better believe that shit's going behind
the payw wall. It's all happening at
patreon.com/quest.
If you're a fan of my work, you should
pledge just $3.99 and get access to a
dragon's horde of it. Back to the
review. So, let's finally talk about how
Mythic Bastion Land plays, what happens
in this world that you've made. And
let's do this in two parts. First, let's
talk about this from the player's
perspective, which is tense, but
empowering. And then, I'm going to talk
about this from the GM's perspective,
where it's empowering, but also tense.
So, your campaign will start with the GM
giving the players their first omen from
a randomly rolled myth. So each of your
myths is presented as six omens, which
are basically a countdown of six
increasingly stressful scenes. So at
your home table, your campaign of mythic
might begin at the king's round table
with the players hearing tell that to
the east, a funeral procession is
bringing the moth knight home to be
buried in her home soil. She was a great
knight, but a poor ruler. And so your
king says to the players, "Go and see if
they need any help with the funeral." So
far to the players, this could be a
normal role- playinging game, but it's
not. The key thing for the players as
they set off into the world map on their
totally unique, terrible horses that
might be brighteyed or bearded or
apparently uh boneless, because who
doesn't want to ride into battle with
something with the structure of a
chicken tender? They don't know exactly
where they're going beyond like east,
maybe because only the GM knows where
the myths are originating. And that is
good. I'm going to explain like how many
D and D adventures start with there's
trouble at the mine. Go to the mine. And
so where do you go? You go to the mine.
That's not a decision. And therefore,
it's not really a game because games are
a sequence of interesting decisions,
right? So since the dawn of role playing
games, designers and GMs have been
experimenting with a hex map, creating a
game that's called a hex crawl, where
players don't know where they're going.
They're visiting each little hex. Now,
what I'm about to say next is a
conclusion that I was able to get to
only after watching this excellent video
by Mystic Arts. But there are two
problems with hex crawls. If your
players don't have any information on
where they're going, then the hex crawl
is functionally pointless. You're really
not making decisions. You're just
traveling at random. And in the words of
the Cheshire Cat from Alice in
Wonderland, if you don't know where
you're going, any road will take you
there. Conversely though, if players
have too much information about the
world map, then they're always just able
to plot the shortest or best route
between where they are and where they
want to get to. Again, they're not
making decisions. It's just someone
dressed their atlas up in fishnetss.
Players are on the hunt for these myths,
right? But because the myths are quite
abstract, players are paying attention
to every little clue, every little vibe
shift, every little NPC, they're going
to be asking, "What do you know about
this goblin?" Also, because the realm is
small and because you're going to be
retracing your steps across it for the
entire campaign, what is in every hex or
how those hexes change because of your
actions all becomes valuable knowledge.
Who put a glue bog here? We are never
coming back here again. Also, because
the myths are epic and because the
players exist in a multigenerational
sense, everything has the potential to
change the world, which makes it feel
precious but also threatened. And most
importantly, if like me, you're a GM who
doesn't set out to be cruel, but doesn't
necessarily hate it when my players
suffer, a lot of hex crawls are based on
a resource management system, right?
Where players need supplies, they need
to balance supplies. And again, this
often fails to be a game because if the
players have enough supplies, they don't
need to think about it. If the players
have no supplies, there's nothing they
can do. Mythic Bastion Land has a
resource management game that is so much
better than managing supplies and it's
so mean and I love it so much. You know
when you've got a school bully and then
there's that like pathetic kid behind
the bully going, "Haha, yeah." That's
me. That's me stood behind Mythic
Bastion Land. This game is mean and I'm
stood behind it going, "Yeah." So
outside of combat, Mythic Bastion Land
uses a super simple dice resolution
mechanic where you just try and roll
under your stat on a d20. There's no
skills in this game because of course
it's medieval times and skills haven't
been invented yet. But here's the thing.
In Mythic Bastion Land, all of your
stats are your health bars. Your vigor
that determines if you can run or climb
or swim, that is your health. If you get
shot by an arrow for six points and your
vigor goes from 13 to seven, you're now
trying to roll under seven on a d20. But
this is the case with all of your stats.
If you get a horrendous night's sleep,
your clarity gets lower. If you make a
depressing discovery, your spirit might
slip away. Or if your GM is a dick,
naming no names, you might have two
players roleplay a really intense
argument between their two characters,
and then the GM goes, "That was great.
You guys, please both lose one spirit."
And while every night has a totally
awesome, flavorful, unique way to
recover their spirit, you only recover
your vigor from a night spent in warm
hospitality. Look forward to your
players arguing that a blind man
offering them melted snow in a tin cup
counts as warm hospitality. And clarity
only comes back after your players have
a conversation with a seer. None of whom
do anything so convenient as living in
any of the towns you're visiting because
I'll say again, they're just awful
people. I love that this game has the
equivalent of a Merlin or a Gandalf
figure that you can visit, but the main
reason not to do so is that they're just
the worst. Perhaps your realm will be
home to the celebrated seer who can see
the future but only the moments of
intense positivity in it and lives for
praise and elaborate celebrations not
really caring what for. Or maybe you
roll the torn sear, a man cleaved in
half from head to groin, and the two
halves hold themselves together but act
like two people and always present two
possibilities, two opinions, two
predictions. Again, there are 72 of
these pricks and they are all awesome.
Anyway, so this stats is the oursed game
of resource management you're playing as
your party is hiking around. You're
looking for these myths which are
getting more and more dangerous, but as
you travel, you're getting more tired
and muddled and miserable. Sure, this
ogre you've heard a lot about sounds
like a real piece of [ __ ] but you could
probably defeat them on a good day. The
question Mythic Bastion Land asks is,
could you defeat them on a bad day? And
you know what that question is? That's
good, clean, fun. There's one more thing
to teach you about traveling around the
Hex map, and I've actually saved the
best, my favorite mechanic for last. So,
as your players cross the Hex map,
there's always about a 50% chance
they're going to find another omen. And
there's a chance this could be from any
myth, but it's twice as likely to belong
to the nearest myth. So, if players are
near this ominous pack of wolves, they
might enjoy the next still more ominous
scene from that story, but they could
encounter anything. But the GM never
tells you whether what you're
encountering in this hex is what's
always in there or if it's from a myth.
And if it is from a myth, what myth it's
from. And so now, with all of these
mechanics guiding us like a
constellation of stars, you can see how
this tumble hex map starts to play as
intelligently as a game like Legend of
Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom. The players
are told to go north, but then they go
that way and see something unexpected.
So now your table of players is ftting
about, is this the next omen relating to
the myth they were following already, or
a different myth? Is it a myth at all?
Maybe that crow was just a weird little
guy. And before you know it, you've got
multiple spooky plot threads competing
for your attention. They're all getting
worse, but also your stats are starting
to look a bit wonky. One of you's weak
at the knees, one of you's blurryeyed,
one of you is just depressed. But here's
the thing. If you decide to return back
to a town or go to talk to a seer, the
myths continue to get worse on your way
back. And finally, the totality of the
cruel game you're playing is revealed.
Hidden around this world are the fuses
of six bombs that are away with every
other step you take. All too often,
failure in role playing games is
something the GM threatens the players
with, but it never really comes to pass.
Mythic Bastion Land is absolutely making
threats that he will make good on, and I
love it for that. As your players are
riding their horse across this
landscape, it trembles with tension
because at the end of every myth is
exactly what happens if you fail. Your
regent may die, towns may burn, or
Jesus, how do you feel about the very
sky turning into a rippling endless
ceiling of skulls that bellow new laws
that the cowering humans below must
follow each season. Page 103. Which
isn't to say Mythic Bastion Land is
truly a mean game. It's just high
stakes. If Dn D is a safe job where you
can expect regular promotions, Mythic
Bastion Land is robbing banks. If you
find a magic sword in this game, you
will be the strongest human being in the
world. Or like if you participate in
beating just two myths and winning one
duel, your character will have enough
glory to become the leader of one of the
shittier towns on the map. Also, if you
fail a myth, your queen may have to
permanently share the realm with another
regent known as the Toad, the Fat Lord,
born to rule. And maybe that town that
you just became the ruler of is
technically in the fat lord's territory
and now you owe that frog taxes. And
maybe then that means the story becomes
your character rebelling against him.
And maybe that's how you die. And that
is fine because that means you get
another pull on King Arthur's Gatapon.
All that said though, I would be doing
this game a disservice if it I've never
tw's ribbon around before like it's
white girl wasted. I'd be doing a
disservice if I implied that this book
was grim dark like a Mockborg or a
Warhammer 40,000 because actually it is
more nuanced and more interesting than
that. It has a glimmer of hope and that
makes this world worth fighting for.
I wanted to have it feel like there was
some hope to it. It's not like the
golden age has passed. It's like well
we're just before the golden age
potentially. Um, so yeah, things things
like there not being any roads in the
setting. Like roads I mentioned in
passing in in something to do with when
you're like building a great project,
you could potentially build a road like
between two holdings, which would be
like some some incredible thing that's
never really happened before. There's
definitely a bit of kind of misery and
mud about the implication, but I've
tried to keep it on a kind of not too
bleak of an angle.
So, if you're the kind of GM who is
fetishistic about prep, which I
sometimes, not frequently, find myself
to be, you will have a lovely time with
Mythic Bastion Land, planning all the
details of the six myths and their NPCs,
fleshing out each of the towns in the
world, all the seers, all the key
players motivations.
But if you're the kind of GM who doesn't
enjoy prep or doesn't have time for prep
or perhaps only GMs cuz they have to and
really wants to show up on a Tuesday
night like a player with no idea what's
going to happen. Mythic Bastion Land
doesn't just still work. It's maybe a
superior experience. Let me just do a
brief tangent here to talk about one of
the stickiest secrets about GMing that
many of us haven't fully admitted to
ourselves yet. Content that a games
master has lovingly prepared ahead of
time is often very entertaining. And
content that a GM is often just
panically making up right there at the
table in response to what the players
say is often just as entertaining. Sure,
content that you are just bullshitting
right there in the moment is often less
polished. It's maybe less cinematic, but
there is also an intrinsic joy for a
player in watching the GM sweat a little
bit and watching a story that bends more
according to their choices, their
agency, their motivations. And that is
what the hobby of role playing is all
about, that freedom. And the thing with
Mythic Bastion Land is it is designed
entirely around that freedom. You don't
know what omen is going to proc next.
You don't know which myth your players
are going to prioritize. You don't know
if they're going to raise an army of
peasants and then proceed to treat that
army so badly that the peasants become
the biggest threat to the realm. You
don't know if your players are going to
go and bother a seer who, let me remind
you, knows everything, but always asks
for a price for what the players ask
them. How do you prepare for that? There
is no greater feeling in this hobby as a
player than announcing your action and
watching the GM's mouth fall open. You
know, it's funny. Intrinsic to the words
game master is this idea of domination.
This is my game and you're playing it.
And that's kind of a misnomer because
there is so much fantastically fun
submissive behavior in this hobby. Not
being a games master, but a game servant
where the player declares what they're
going to do in this story and you, the
GM, go, "Wait, but that would mean hang
on. But if you do that, then he would
ship." Oh, okay. Here's what happens.
Also, just on the subject of prep in
this game not being very useful, don't
forget that at the end of each session,
the players decide how much time passes,
whether that's a night or a week or a
season or an age. How do you prep for
that? Imagine you've decided what every
single NPC's name is and what they're up
to, and then your players go, "Yeah, I
think 20 years pass now." What are you
going to do as a GM? I'll tell you what
you're going to do. You're going to make
the damage sound from Dark Souls. you're
going to be like,
it's also worth remembering that as a
GM, the more you prep, you're not just
calcifying the story that's about to
happen, you're also calcifying the
world. Like in my home game of Mythic
Bastion Land, there was a point and my
players were finding the ogre. And I
narrated that he had this crown made of
twigs like a bird's nest. And one of my
players said, "Oh, he's wearing a crown
and he's bold. He's proud." And that was
a great observation. And if I had in my
notes that the ogre wasn't proud, then
that observation is just lost. But
instead, I'm able to be like, "Shit,
that's interesting. He's proud." Okay,
that player is rewarded for playing the
game well. But also, the entire evening
becomes smoother and faster because the
GM isn't just telling each of the
players how the world is for the entire
evening. The players are also telling
the GM how the world is. And the more
you prep, the less you can do that. So
yeah, as written, the GM in Mythic
Bastion Land is often just making [ __ ]
up all the time. And I have a very
special message to all the GMs watching
this who think, "Ah, this game looks
great, but I couldn't do that."
Yes, you can. Listen to me. Listen to
me. Get close. Closer. Closer. Get
close. Get really close. This game
doesn't just make it easy to make [ __ ]
up.
It makes you and me look good. One thing
that Mythic Bastion Land takes off your
plate immediately is pacing, which is a
very hard thing for GMs to finesse
because this game has an idiosyncratic
relentless pace you don't control.
Because as players take each step,
there's a 50% chance an omen's going to
flab darkly across the sky or scream
from over the hill or walk up to the
player's tents and ask for porridge.
Another reason that this game makes
making stuff up kind of effortless is
because it's mythic. It's in the game.
That is the theme we return to over and
over again. And I don't know if you've
ever read myths, but like the Epic of
Gilgamesh reads like a GM is making it
up on the fly. And that's I think
because what mythic really means when
you're telling a story is that anything
can be anything. You know, a crow can be
a crow or a crow can be intelligent. The
sun can do its job or it can just not.
And so what that means, I think, in
Mythic Bastion is that bad ideas have
this wiggle room that they don't seem
bad, they just seem strange. And when
things seem strange, they seem on theme.
Third, yes, this game does expect you to
cook, but also it gives you all of the
ingredients. You've got spark tables,
you've got random prompts at the bottom
of pages, and you've got these myths,
which aren't just NPCs and cool scenes.
They're whole ass little arcs for you.
And the fourth and final reason why I
think Mythic Bastion Land makes it so
easy for even novice GMs, perhaps that's
you watching this, to GM a fun game is
that it has something that hooks players
into the plot deeply without you doing
anything. And that is it gives players
power. Power to impact the story, yes,
but also the power to decide where they
want to go, which is always going to be
equally entertaining because it's always
proing omens. And here's the crazy part.
The players can raise war bands, rule
towns, sit on councils, plan
developments from as quickly as the
first session. The players don't need
you to make their lives interesting or
exciting. The players just need you to
add complexity and anyone can do that.
Yeah, it all comes from sort of looking
through D and D books and feeling like,
you know, when you're looking at those
highle spells and you're thinking, "Oh,
wouldn't it be cool if my players had
like a wish spell?" But then the reality
of sort of at least my experience was
well I'm mostly playing like one shots
and maybe short campaigns. I never did
like the idea that yeah you have to earn
the fun stuff or at least or at least
earn the interesting stuff. I'm very
keen to put those things right in the
like session one.
There is however one slightly intense
thing that the GM will have to improvise
which is how the players actually defeat
the myths. Seems pretty important right?
But nowhere on this sheet is written
down how this story actually ends. So
your players are probably just going to
try something. I bury the cursed crown.
I shackle the goblin and take him back
to the capital. I climb to where the sun
is absent from the sky and ask in very
strong words for it to return. And you
need to make the call if that works or
if it doesn't or if it's a dice roll.
I'm flagging this not because it's
particularly hard from the GM, but just
because it's a little bit shocking. You
get these adventures, they say exactly
what happens if the players fail, and
that's it. But at my table, honestly,
ending these myths simply felt very
natural. If my player had a great idea
that was super on theme or just a
beautiful play, I said it worked. If my
players had an idea that was quite good,
I let that be a dice roll. Or if you've
got a player whose solution is just
plain lazy, don't hesitate and punish
the little squirt. So Dunston, that was
rubbish. Not only does it fail, everyone
who's watching is disappointed in you.
So who's watching? Your horse. Your
horse loses five spirit. Here's a case
study for you. In my campaign, the
players took on the ogre. And the one
fact the GM has about the ogre is that
if you don't have its name, it cannot be
harmed. So you know what one of my
players did?
He rode out. Can I speak and do this at
the same time? Being a drummer is hard.
He rode out on his horse and spoke to
the ogre and said, "I wish to swear an
oath and become your knight." Because
the ogre's proud, right? I wish to
become your knight, but I can't swear an
oath to you until I know your name.
Brilliant genius. Straight out of myth.
Of course, I said the ogre, told the
players his name, and then my players
hacked him to pieces. One of my players
actually narrated that they were going
to hack its dick off first. And speaking
of dicks and the hacking thereof,
let's move on to my one piece of
criticism about this game. I have but
one criticism of Mythic Bastion Land.
And Chris Mcdell, if you're watching
this, listen up because this is only
coming once. I think the combat in your
game is
great, but I think it could have been
better. If I know Chris McDall, I think
he's proud of his designs. And he's
probably watching this right now
thinking, "Go yourself, Quins." And you
know what? That's fair because I'm
actually of the opinion that no role
playing game I've ever played has a
particularly great combat system. Here's
the thing. My criticism of Mythic
Bastian Land's combat can be compared to
that of a teacher who is the absolute
harshest to the smartest kid in the
class because they're the one that might
do something with their lives. They
might get us out of this town. So, if
you've only played Dungeons and Dragons,
Mythic Bastion's combat comes at you
with the kineticism of Thrman throwing a
baseball at your sternum. Let's put my
baseball back. It's rolling and it's not
going to stay there. How did I do this
before? There we go. Combat in Mythic
Bastion Land is turnbased and whenever
anyone attacks, they roll a dice pool
according to their gear. You got a big
sword, that's a d8. You got a shield in
your offh hand, that's a d4. Are you
charging into combat on a waror as
opposed to the 72 grody ponies you start
the game with? That's d8 trample damage.
The GM can also give you extra narrative
dice in case you're fighting smart or
dirty. Maybe your opponent is drunk or
afraid. You then take this fist full of
violence and you roll the whole thing.
And there's no rolling to hit here. You
just get prizes. Any dice higher than a
three can be binned to buy gambits that
everyone in the world has access to,
like moving your character, buying
yourself some space, trapping a fo's
weapon for the next turn, or any other
clever narrative tricks you're panically
thinking of. You can also bin a three or
higher to get plus one to another die.
Because once you're done with gambits,
the highest die remaining is how much
damage you do. If I had to use one word,
Mythic Bastion's combat is clattering
with lots of fun, very tense rolling of
dice back and forth with knights
trapping one another's weapon and then
hitting back and hitting back. If you've
seen Ridley Scott's inexplicably
excellent movie, The Last Duel, you'll
have an idea of the kind of heft and
danger that I'm talking about here. It
is a wrestling match with razor blades.
Now, what's cute is that your saving
throw against a gambit, like someone
using their gauntleted hand to grab your
sword and pin it against the wall, is
your vigor. You try and roll under your
vigor on d20. But don't forget, your
vigor is also your hit points. And so,
there's this very frightening sensation
to combat in mythic where everyone's
willing their fattest die to give up the
goods. Yes, that's a 10. Because if you
can start chipping away at your
opponent's vigor, then you can start
catching them out with tricks that get
around their saving throw. It's a game
where if you start losing, you keep
losing. And I love this because I
personally adore combat systems in RPGs
that capture how tiring fights are.
That's what makes me feel like I'm
fighting for my life and not like I'm
sat here doing my maths homework. So
imagine my delight then when Mythic
Bastion Land layers two further systems
on top of this combat, both about
exhaustion, both super thematic. So
first, on top of everyone's three main
stats, everyone has a fourth statistic
called guard. And you can think of this
a bit like the shield in Halo or Destiny
if you've played those video games where
when you're out of combat, it recovers
quite quickly because your guard stat is
hit points, but it recovers whenever the
danger has passed. That's the rule.
Which means this is a game where
circling your horses away to flee the
combat and just catch your breath or
using a piece of furniture to block a
stairwell just to buy yourself 60
seconds to breathe. Those are super
valuable but very tense strategies and
it makes the game feel like you're going
like around in a boxing match. Then
you're finding time to just breathe
again and figure out if you can go back
into that fight. The next system and
this led to some of just the juiciest
decisions in my campaign. Let's talk
about feats. Knights can do feats. I
love feats. You know what? Actually, let
me just pause this explanation to say
something else. If you're watching this
and thinking, "Oh, this all seems quite
complicated." Yes, you're right. Mythic
Bastion Land's combat is not simple. But
here's the thing. Unlike Dn D, which
puts you in a combat kindergarten and
then gets more complicated as it goes
on, Mythic Bastion Land says, "Hey,
let's not waste time here. Your first
fight should be just as exciting as your
fifth." And so the combat system is
really good at the start of the game,
but here's the thing. Never gets more
complicated after that. It's just a
wicked little game that you can master
as you play more of it. Okay, back to
feats. So, why were me and my players
losing my mind with the system? Okay,
let me explain. In a combat round, a
knight, and this includes enemy knights,
which is a great curveball if your
players aren't expecting it, can do a
feat. You can smite hitting with the
force of a truck. You can focus getting
a free gambit, like disarming your enemy
that they cannot defend against, or you
can deny. You can take the highest die
in your opponent's pool and just say,
"No, get rid of it." Now, in Mythic
Bastion Land's world of lethal
integgers, these are all superpowers,
but there's a catch. After you smite,
you have to make a vigor save. After you
focus, you have to make a clarity save.
And after you deny, you have to make a
spirit save. And if you fail, you cannot
do a feat again until your character has
a little sleep. Now, let me nerd it up
for a second and channel the board game
journalist that I once was and still am.
For anyone wondering, this simple
mechanic is so good because for as long
as you have a feet ready to go, you
bloody Captain America. The lance
crashes into your shield at 40 mph for I
deny it. Today you and I will see who is
the greater warrior if I kick him off
the tower. Sir Dunston, the 20
lumberjacks are bearing down on you. I
use smite and swing my great sword to
cut down four of them. That would be a
morale check, don't you think? Damn it,
said Dunston. You've done it again. But
the reason this mechanic will always
have your players staring down at their
character sheet and sweating like
they're about to bet their car keys in a
poker game is because if they do a feat
and then fail the following saving
throw, they've just lost their nuclear
deterrent and now they're just a tired
guy temporarily balanced on a difficult
horse. And then just narratively, once
you add in the fact that your characters
in your story all have different stats
and the plot lines and the myths are so
unpredictable, this feat system just
regularly coughs up such glorious
scenes. Like if you got a character with
really high spirit, them continually
denying attacks that would kill them is
some Errol Flynn [ __ ] Or like a
character who's been battered around so
much their vigor is now super low,
declaring, "Okay, I'll smite." feels
like them signing their own death
sentence or like your characters all
deciding to ride back into battle on
their horses even though they're all
fatigued and none of them can do feats
anymore. That's real heroism. So now I'm
sure there's more than a few of you
watching this who've been paying
attention who are like, "Hang on, Quins,
didn't you introduce this section on
combat so you could complain? Wasn't
this supposed to be a criticism
section?" Yes, you guys can give
yourselves an experience point. So
here's my problem. I am delighted in how
Mythic Bastion Land achieves everything
I've explained to you with just a stupid
16 pages of rules. But I think, if I may
be so bold that it should have been 17
pages. I think this book really needs a
page on designing and balancing combat
encounters because these myths in the
book with just the power of your
imagination, it's like adding water to
instant mashed potato and suddenly
you've got this full satisfying meal.
That is not true of the combat and the
enemies and the stat blocks printed on
these minimalist adventures. All you get
in each myth is just three stat blocks
with absolutely no scaling for how many
players you even have at your table. And
with this combat system, it's like Chris
McDow. That's quite good, isn't it?
Chris McDow has given you the keys to a
Formula 1 car. That's what this combat
system feels like. And then you're like,
Chris, this is awesome. Where am I going
to drive it? And then he gestures
vaguely at the lawn behind his house.
So, it was probably about the third
session of Mythic Bastion Land when I
realized in my home game that even the
epic enemies as presented in the book
were too easy for my party when they all
worked together. So, I was like, "Okay,
let's fix that." Then, by the sixth
session of Mythic, one of my players
pointed out, you know, we played a lot
of this combat and I've realized I only
really love it when we've got some other
objective besides just killing the enemy
or some weird terrain for us to worry
about. And I said, okay, let's give like
subobjectives and complications to these
combat encounters. And then by session
nine of our campaign, I had another
realization. I realized that if my
players were all fighting the same big
monster, when they rolled their dice
pulled together, the player who'd most
grocked the combat was telling other
people how to do gambits. So I was like,
"Okay, let's divide this party up so
they're fighting foes separately." And
so players aren't backseat gaming for
one another. And then it was the end of
our campaign. Now, it's not like any of
the fights we had were bad. And in fact,
some of them were absolutely fantastic.
You might not even notice the fine
detailing and the balancing that I'm
describing, but me, I'm a fussy son of a
[ __ ] And when everything else in
Mythic was so smooth, it ran like pure
magic. I was finishing sessions of
mythic and saying goodbye to my friends
and making myself a tea and thinking
about the combat like
or I was tucking myself in bed and I was
still thinking about the combat like
but overall the combat in Mythic Bastion
is still a triumph and I do want to
reward this game. So I'm going to finish
this review by talking about just one
combat encounter where all of the stars
aligned and it was just absolutely
fantastic. So, there's this suggestion
in the Mythic Bastion Man book that if
you like, every knight gets a squire.
And my players latched on to this idea.
In fact, they all had two characters.
They were their own knight and another
knight's squire. And this has all kinds
of cool side effects. Like, you can
learn a lot about a knight player
character by how they treat their
squire. That's an interesting
relationship. And also maybe more
importantly, you can split the party and
everyone can be involved in those scenes
because yes, your knight isn't there,
but you're still playing that player's
squire who is there. So this fight, let
me get my whiteboard.
Okay, so my players were exploring this
little dungeon that was the lair of the
ogre, right? And they encountered in
that dungeon a slave of the ogre, the
insect knight, who was a morally dubious
NPC, but they said, "Okay, just come
with us and we'll deal with you later."
Then the three night characters, my
players, all went through this doorway,
which was a trap, and the door slammed
shut, trapping them in the next room.
This was an unexpected development for
me as the GM. But then I realized the
insect knight at this point being locked
in the room with the three squires of
the knights would now say, "Okay, your
knights are dead. Follow me back out and
I'll be your leader." And the three
players who in this scene now swapped to
playing their squires did something
they'd never done before. They stood up
for themselves and they said, "No, yeah,
insect knight, even though you outrank
us, we're not abandoning our masters."
And I said, "Okay, the insect knight
draws steel. This is a fight." And we
had this wonderful moment where for the
first time they all swapped character
sheets and looked at their squire stats
and realized, "Oh man, one of us is
absolutely going to die here, if not
two, if not three." And these were
characters we loved. The melee that
followed taught us how beautiful mythics
combat can be when all the stars align.
With the saddest dice pools you've ever
seen, with a working knowledge of how
absolutely busted the rules for knights
are, and with the insect knight's
ability to, I quickly check my book,
control insects. We engaged in a brawl
with my players sacrificing whole turns
to just grab the knight's sword with
their bare hands or grab at his feet
with nobody at the table daring to draw
breath as I rolled each of the insect
knights attacks knowing that if I rolled
a number high enough that was it. They
were dead. It was peak. None of my
players ended up dying. They all
survived but for the grace of God and
the insect knight was slain. Now, my
point here is this is not an example of
how Mythic Bastion 9's combat is better
if the players are disempowered. It's an
example of how good this game's combat
can be when the combat is balanced. My
campaign also had two duels where one
knight simply fought another knight, and
those fights were absolutely tremendous
as well. So, allow me to sheave my sword
because that's my review of Mythic
Bastion Land, everybody. A game I cannot
recommend highly enough. A design like a
beautiful medieval stained glass window
that provides you these fabulous
silhouettes. And then you and your
friends, you're like the sun shining
through this window, giving it color,
giving it texture, making it holy,
making it yours. And as you'll hear if
you listen to the interview with Chris
Mell that I have on my Patreon. One of
the next designs he's working on is a
sequel to this book called Intergalactic
Bastion Land inspired by classic RPG
Traveler. I literally could not be more
excited. Here's Chris McDow paying it
forward with a couple of other games
that he recommends.
Yeah. So, the first one I wanted to pick
was uh Vaults of Vaughn by Leah Hunt,
which is a science fantasy kind of weird
dying Earth style game. It it packs so
much flavor into its content that
everything from the the sort of the
character classes that you might have. I
hesitate to call them classes. They're
more like archetypes. And all all of the
random tables and all of the locations
and factions that are written in very
tur terms just are so inspirational. and
it's a real masterass in how to pack a
bunch of setting and flavor into some
very very small packages and I believe
it's getting a fancy hardback release
sometime soon. The other one I wanted to
talk about is not really a release. So I
wanted to include uh the Glog or the
Goblin Laws of Gaming which is
originally by Arnold Kemp who writes at
Goblin Punch but is now spread like a
virus across the sort of OSR blogger
sphere. It is a very strippback D&D
hack, but some of the class design in
particular is absolutely bonkers and
wild. The the most beautiful thing about
it is it's not just a book. You have to
explore all of these different blogs.
So, if you are at all interested in
what's happening in RPG design, dive
into the blog well and see what you can
find.
Thank you so much for watching
everybody. And if you'd like to know
more about some of the terminology in
this video, such as what is a knight or
what is a horse, simply return to the
main menu of your Quins Quest database.
