Well met, stranger. Sharpen knowledge
sword. Virtual dice of the day. Visit
trumpet. Wash me.
>> Roll virtual dice.
>> Consulting my orb. I stri a winner.
>> My lege. The riches of the kingdom are
yours.
Whatever is this you hold in your hand?
Is it some sort of medieval shield? P
chance a buckler? Nay, it is a CD ro.
Hey, sorry I'm late. Sorry I'm coming.
Sorry I'm late. Sorry I'm late. Hi, I'm
just Oh my god.
Triangle Agency is an award-winning new
tabletop role playing game of comedy
mostly and about activism and resistance
maybe in a modern-day corporate
workplace where your players are going
to be employed as basically Thor police
in a world where thoughts are sentient
and superpowered and need to be arrested
but where they might also turn you
inside out. It plays something like if
the video game Control was written by
the team behind Steven Universe and it
looks like this. And it comes in a
gorgeous collector's edition that looks
like this, which has special dice that
look like this. And my god, if these
aren't my favorite dice to come bundled
with a TTRPG ever. Lovely colors, high
contrast, so we can read them with ease.
Even in the dignified low lighting that
I like to play my TTRPGs in, a sexy
font. an eyeball in the D12 for fun and
for other secret reasons because this is
a TTRPG rule book with spoilers, an
entire corporate handbook of them. In
fact, however, this reviewer is not
convinced that the, I'll say it,
indecorous quality of these official
dice makes up for the fact that the dice
pool you're going to be rolling in
Triangle Agency to see if you succeed is
trying to get as many threes as possible
on 6d4.
D4s being the worst, most unsatisfying
dice in existence for no reason other
than triangle agency is committed to the
bit. Because you see, D4s are made up of
triangles and the numbers three and six
are both divisible by three, which is
the number of sides a triangle has. And
I hate it because unless you own the
official D4s with their highlighted
threes, rolling a pool of 64 and looking
for threes feels like looking through
the fur of a family pet looking for
lace. It's simply the worst dice pool of
all time. But man, you and I got to lock
in. We got a review to do. So, Triangle
Agency is an endlessly funny TTRPG with
my favorite pitch that I've encountered
in years. I actually first thought it
was a parody of Delta Green when I first
read it, which I reviewed back in season
2, episode 1, and turns out it's not,
but it could be. Let's get some more
water. Ow, hit my knee. Triangle Agency
says to a table of players, "Hey, would
you guys like to step into the business
shoes of a squad of cool field agents
with the mission of stabilizing reality
by hunting down anomalies that you're
going to try and capture in a briefcase
and then take back to HQ where they can
be safely stowed in a vault?" But where
a lot of TCRPGs would end their pitch
there, content with letting players feel
good about themselves, Triangle Agency
then says, "Also, this is the worst most
corporate job you've ever had, and you
can never leave because your player
character is also an anomaly, granting
you unique, cool powers to fight and
survive, but also, if we're being
honest, making you a narc. But don't
worry, you're definitely working for the
good guys. Definitely. Let's crack open
this corporate handbook and begin your
induction. In the words of the Triangle
Agency book, the universe was not meant
to be observed. It goes on to explain a
secret of existence kept quiet from just
about every human on the planet, which
is that when sentient beings have
thoughts, powerful thoughts can manifest
as beings known as anomalies that seek
to perpetuate that thought. For
instance, if someone really wants peace
and quiet, maybe they can bring into
existence a horrifying SCP- like thing
that starts making things quiet however
it can. Perhaps initially by breaking
any nearby speaker systems before
graduating to the more enterprising
objective of hunting down organic things
in the neighborhood and stopping those
noisy heartbeats of theirs. at which
point Triangle Agency might hear reports
of paranormal activity and bundle the
players into a company car to go and
investigate what's happening, find out
why it's happening, and ultimately coax
Slenderman man here into your briefcase
and into the vault. The problem for the
player characters, well, one problem in
your diverse and inclusive rainbow of
problems is that they are what are
called resonance. people who have bonded
with an anomaly and have superpowers
ranging from the soothingly silly to the
seriously sinister that are maybe the
best thing about this game. Like if you
choose the dream anomaly, you can step
into paintings, photographs, videos,
novels, or other pieces of art and
explore them or manipulate them. Or you
can just make people fall asleep. Though
each time you fail a roll, one of your
friends might fall asleep instead. Or
like, oh my god, check this out. If you
go with the whisper, one of your powers
is to respond to a spoken sentence with
the phrase say again and tell the group
what the target said instead and that
becomes reality. Although if you fail
the role for the next 3 hours, you can
only speak in words in the sentence you
intended for them. as anomalies. The
only reason the Triangle Agency hasn't
locked you in their everthreatening
business vault is that you are useful
for capturing other anomalies. Does that
make you a collaborator? Don't think
about it. Don't think about it. Also,
both form a union. That's on page 56,
where the agency adds that if two
employees develop a meaningful
relationship, that will be considered a
union. Also, don't forget to file your
paperwork after each mission. I love
this. This is a game where the Gio will
reward players after each mission based
on not just how they performed, but how
accurate their paperwork is.
Historically, so much of TTRPG history
has seen this hobby acting as a nerd
power fantasy. And I'm telling you, we
got it backwards. Triangle Agency does
give players a ton of power. Like, one
of my players's abilities was just to
delete an NPC, and that mother did it
all the time. But it alternates between
the players and the GM being buffeted
around by their respective issues like
napkins in a wind tunnel. I'm telling
you, with the right group and maybe a
few adult beverages, this game is
sidpplittingly funny. The players aren't
even full-time field agents. That's just
something you're called up by the agency
to do during emergencies. The rest of
the time, your character might be a
barista in the company cafe with a
special rule for that player. Each time
you say somebody's name correctly,
receive one demerit. I struggle to think
of one simple rule in RPG that's bought
me and my friends more joy than that. Or
if a player chooses to be the CEO of
their branch of Triangle Agency, it
says, "Each time you take an order,
receive one demerit." You have not lived
until you've seen one player at your
table say to the CEO, "Why don't you get
out of the car?" And then that player
can't get out of the car cuz that would
be an order. So instead, they say, "I
think I'm going to get out of the car."
And I love it. That said, more than any
other game that I've reviewed on Quinn's
Quest, the precise kind of experience
Triangle Legacy is going to be will be
down to you. Let me draw you something.
Let's imagine the tone of your game
plotted on a graph. So, your player
characters are going to be very normal
people with superpowers. So, how much
you focus on them being normal or
superheroes is up to you. But in
addition to your missions to save the
world, this game is also interested in
your mundane home life and office job.
So you could be more normal people
saving the world or superheroes in an
office. And then popping our graph out
into a whopping three dimensions. You
can play Triangle Agency at a game with
serious themes of relationships and duty
and betrayal. Or you might do what I did
and read this book and assume it's a
comedy, a fast, a parody where even the
players bosses at Triangle Agency are
clearly in over their head. So if you
organize a campaign of this, I think you
could end up anywhere in this cube. So
if you lean into this being a surreal
workplace comedy, Triangle Agency could
feel like Ghostbusters. If you lean into
the metaphysical horror, it could feel
like severance. If you like
straightforward superheroes, it could
feel like a silly X-Men. Or if you're
into your postmodern superheroics like I
am, it could play a bit like the
Umbrella Academy or even a light-hearted
chainsaw man. So, this all feels like a
cool game, right? Well, I'm gonna spoil
my conclusion of this review early. I'm
going to give you your dessert as a main
course. So, I ran a campaign of Triangle
Agency with 1, two, three, four players.
That's the Quins Quest guarantee. I
always play full campaigns, the games I
review before I start writing the
script. And I was about six evenings in
when I told my players, "Cool. Uh before
we start playing tonight, guys, I've got
a bit of an announcement. Um running
this game is causing me too much stress.
It's okay with everybody. I would like
to maybe just run a couple more evenings
of it and then move on so we can play a
different RPG.
So, you'd think that means I think
Triangle Agency is a bad game. But no,
because when I told my players this,
they said to me, "Say what?" But Quinc,
this is the funniest game we've ever
played with you. But I guess the GM
needs to have fun, too. So, we can wrap
this campaign up. I don't know why I did
that voice. But wait, there's another
twist here. Because when we met up the
next week to play our final finale of
Triangle Agency, because that's just
good practice, it's always a million
times better to do like an ending
session of a campaign you want to wrap
up rather than have the story just stop.
That final session of Triangle Agency
that we played was one of the best
sessions I've run of any TTRPG. It was
so good that today we don't even look
back on our campaign of Triangle Agency
as a failure. only with this intense
funness. And also, I don't want to run
it again. Please get it away from me,
please. And thank you. How is it
possible that my players were having
such a good time while I wasn't? Well,
now I've fed you your main course. I
hope you're ready for another longer
main course of
uh nuance. The thing is, Triangle Agency
is at once brilliant and maddening. It's
impressive and incoherent. It is an
edifice of magnificent,
thought-provoking architecture, and it
is also
dumb. Brief side note here. For like 10
years, people have been asking me,
Quins, would you ever design a game? And
my pathy answer that's been worn smooth
by time is, are you kidding? Do you know
how hard making a good game is? And that
is true. But the slightly more real
answer is that at different times I have
been offered jobs by companies that can
be relied upon to make really strong
games. It's just that there is
additionally a part of game design that
I know I wouldn't get on with. And it
works like this. When you're making a
game, you have a concept and then you
build it and then you put it in front of
people and then you realize it has
problems and then you try and fix those
problems. Then you put it in front of
people and then you do this loop as many
times as it takes until you go mad or
run out of money or time or to give and
then you've released the game if you can
or you don't. And this bit that is where
the real work is done. Now having ideas,
yeah, I'll I'll have ideas all day long.
But iteration, this bit, the juice, that
requires patience and humility. Two
things your boy Quins was at the back of
the queue for when they were being
handed out. And now I mean this with
love and a fair bit of ego, but in this
respect, Triangle Agency feels like a
game designed by me. To be clear, I
could never have in a million years have
overseen the production of objects as
gorgeous as these. I could never have
overseen this layout or art design. I
couldn't have written a book this
consistently funny. But I could see
myself creating a game with dozens of
superstar ideas. But do they work,
Quins? I don't know. I have left the
office early and I'm in a TGI Fridays
drinking huge bleachcoled cocktails and
it's new. So, in honor of Triangle
Agency's commitment to the bit where
every three in this book is shaded red
for no reason, let's divide this review
in three. In part one of this review,
I'm going to talk about the actual
missions that players go on. Some
pre-written ones being available by the
publishers in a book called The Vault.
In part two, I'm going to talk about
what happens between missions, which is
playing out everyone's disastrous home
lives. And in part three, I'm going to
talk about the stalking 90 pages in the
back of this book of unlockable secrets
that are figuratively but also literally
Triangle Agency's biggest innovation.
But first, I don't know what's happened.
I put this cap on and I've gone mental.
We all love Quins. Plotting, I plan the
quickest. NPCs are the sickest. My books
are the thickest. My plots's the
stickiest, but what if you want more
Quins in your life? The answer to that
used to be the official Quins Quest
magazine, which, and I've always said
this, combined the rigor of print
journalism with the warm poetry of
British literature for both of its
issues before it was cancelled. We never
fulfilled our promise of letting you
collect your own 18piece dice bag.
That's my cross to bear, and I do so
with stoic dignity. But as one door
closes, another opens. And today, the
Quinsquest fan club is available online
for just $4. And that's fine, too.
Honestly, over at patreon.com/corequest,
we've had a wicked month. I wrote about
my experience at a 3-day retreat playing
the seven-part pack for 3 days. This is
a game where seven players sit around
the table playing seven wizards. It has
been described as the Twilight Imperium
of role playing games. And I've got a
long interview with the designer Jay
Dragon as well. I wrote about the
brilliant neo gothic RPG Doom song and
why the grand campaign it comes with is
just fantastic and also why I haven't
played it yet. I've got a follow-up
interview with the designer of Mythic
Bastion Land talking about some of the
criticisms I made in the last Quins
Quest review. I launched a new feature,
Quinsz's campaign diaries. Getting into
the dweeb details of a game that I'm
playing right now that I plan to review
in 2026. Honestly, it's become like a
reverse agony aunt column where like my
readers just help me with And then
dropping on the fan club today, I've got
a brand new baby video talking about an
RPG that I don't have with me. Hang on.
Y's Bed and Breakfast. So, this is a bit
like how to accompany the Delta Green
video review, I did an accompanying
video talking about Delta Green God's
Teeth. This is my counterpart to the
Triangle Agency video because this game
is also wildly ambitious, has hundreds
of pages of unlockable content. It is
absolutely going to be someone's
favorite RPG of all time. It's just not
going to be mine. But also, I just had
to find somewhere to talk about it on
Quinn's Quest because contained within
this book's interestingly
countercultural structure were about 50
bits that made me slap my head and go,
"Oh my goodness, that's genius." And I
want to tell you about them. Also
dropping on the fan club today is my
interview with the designers of Triangle
Agency. And this is just a great listen.
Both because both of the designers are
absolute geniuses, but also because you
can hear the genuine tension on that
call as I ask about creative decisions
that I didn't understand. If you're not
a member of the Quins Crrest fan club,
you don't know what you're missing. I
mean, you you do know what you're
missing cuz I just told you, but yeah,
that take was rubbish. Can we do that
again? I'm coming. Sorry. Coming. I'm
coming. I'm coming. Sorry. Sorry. Sorry,
I was just having lunch.
[Music]
Okay, so according to my diagram, we're
going to start this by talking about the
actual missions the players go on in
Triangle Agency. So, Triangle Agency is
a game that's contorting itself like a
yoga master to have a non-traditional
structure. But in as much as that is
inescapable, these missions are its
traditional structure. So to recap,
missions in Chigel Agency are like
investigations into magical realist
interpretations of magical thinking.
Something weird is happening somewhere
because someone has had a thought so
strong that the thought has become
self-aware and is trying to help with
varying degrees of success and
literalness and compassion. So, the core
book has one very brief example of what
that might look like, which is a
sandwich artist working at a Subway has
become obsessed with keeping ingredients
inside the sandwich, creating an anomaly
that looks for when human beings fail to
keep ingredients inside a sandwich. And
when that happens, it punishes them by
turning them into sort of a reverse
sandwich, putting their insides on the
outside. So then the players around the
table, armed only with this hateful
handful of D6s and some character sheets
that are simply too much, and each other
have to figure out what's happening
that's weird and locate the anomaly. But
that's actually only part of the puzzle.
Because to lure it into your
mousetrap-like agency issue briefcase,
you first need to either satisfy it or
confuse it or remove its reason for
being, which is a puzzle of its own that
probably involves figuring out whose
rancid mind it was birthed from. Now,
before I get into the business of
complaining about this puzzle for
upwards of like seven minutes, I'll
point out that the agency does also give
your player characters a gun with which
they can circumn this whole puzzle by
just shooting the anomaly. The gun
always works. The mission will always
end there. But my players never use the
gun because Triangle Agency doesn't want
you to use the gun. If you sympathize
with the anomalies, you're not going to
want to use the gun. And also, if you
want to play the game, if you believe in
what the games master is doing, you also
don't want to shut down the mission. So,
here's what I'd say. If you're a GM
running Triangle Agency, encourage your
players to use the gun. My mission with
Quinn's Quest is to celebrate games that
make role playinging easier. Because
while I'm out here encouraging all of
you would be GMs to believe role
playinging is easy, GM is great fun to
do badly, I'm doing so because without
that, none of us would ever get started.
The fact is, and I'm loathed to admit
this unless I absolutely have to, GMing
is hard. Jesus, just being a good player
is hard. So, with Quinn's Quest, I'm
just out here trying to point people
towards games that make having a great
time easier. So, if I'm reviewing an
investigation game in which players are
going to be entering situations without
the foggiest idea of what's going on, I
want the game to make it easy for
players to make steady, satisfying
progress towards a conclusion. And
ideally, not only is the GM not breaking
a sweat, but they look really good at
their job. For example, a couple of
episodes ago, I reviewed Delta Green, a
game that says, "Hey, here are a bunch
of investigations with a bunch of
threads for players to pull on and a
rule set that says if a player character
has a skill, like telling when someone
is lying or looking for criminal
forensics or hacking a computer, they
just pass most of the time. The players
just have to point their characters like
metal detectors in the right direction
and the room just gives way to another
room. metaphorically but also sometimes
literally because we got Lovecraft
non-ucuk uklidian geometry going on. So
let's start with this problem. Triangle
agency is literally the opposite. Page
45. Quote, "There are no skill checks in
Triangle Agency because we know you will
fail at anything risky or difficult that
you attempt. Anytime you think this
might not work, take our word for it, it
won't." So, in Triangle Agency, whenever
the players encounter any obstacle, like
trying to gain access to someone's house
or trying to wrestle a giant millipede
to the ground, the GM just goes straight
to narrating them failing, unless they
use one of their super cool anomalous
powers, like, I don't know, the I know a
shortcut ability of the manifold
anomaly. That means you can just say, I
know a shortcut, and get into someone's
basement by squeezing into your car's
glove compartment. Or if you need to
fight a millipede, you could say, "I
know a shortcut." And enter a cupboard
and then re-emerge through a second
story window and just elbow drop them.
And to be clear, this is one of the
rules that when I first read the book
sold me on running a campaign of
Triangle Agency. Are you kidding? That
 is hilarious. And it's elevated
even further because every single
anomalous power in this book has a very
funny result if you roll the dice and
fail. Like if you fail the dice, roll
for I know a shortcut. It's on a
failure. Your shortcut leads somewhere
very inconvenient instead of the desired
location. Your whole team's fighting a
big millipede. You go, "I know a
shortcut." You climb into a cupboard and
emerge in your ex-wife's house, but she
can't know you're in trial agency. So,
while the rest of your team is still
fighting the millipede, now you're role
playinging a scene where you're trying
to explain why you just broke into her
house. Let me just give you a real
example of this from my home game that
also serves as like a pocket review of
Triangle Agency. So much that's right
and so much that's wrong about this game
is contained in this story. So in our
very first session, my players were
trying to get access to a house because
they knew something weird was happening
inside it. And someone used an anomalous
power to create a massive sewage
backflow in all the toilets in the
house. And then they showed up
pretending to be weirdly well-dressed
plumbers. But the role playinging
involved in this was so complicated. The
chain of causality was so long that when
my players entered the house, they
proceeded to investigate the sewage as
the weird thing that was happening here,
forgetting that they had caused it. Now,
on the one hand, role playing doesn't
get better than that, right? That is
precisely the kind of farical that
when it happens in actual play shows,
people animate it and it goes viral.
It's just that when we stopped laughing,
my players were all further away from
solving the mission than they had been
30 minutes ago. And this is my big
problem with Triangle Agencies
investigations. As a GM, I could never
relax. I never fully felt like I was
doing a good job. I was just grommet
building out the train tracks trying to
create a path that would lead my players
towards this being over. Triangle Agency
is so thoughtprovoking to read, but when
you actually take its zesty high concept
that magical thinking can create real
problems and then get it to the table, I
just personally found it was like
sandpaper for the amount of friction it
created. The reality of Triangle Agency,
if you will, is that players don't know
what they're investigating or why the
anomaly is doing it or even what it can
do or where it's coming from or how it's
misinterpreting its creators desires.
But are the players at least given tools
to do with reading minds or detecting
toxic thoughts or understanding what
objects here might be anomalous?
No, you were given the most Looney Tunes
ass grab bag of powers like with
gravity or wrapping your skin around
people like a human Tanuki scrotum or
deleting people but if it goes badly
they explode. But if this was stressful
for me the GM, my players were just
having terrific individual scenes and
moments. I'm thinking about when I had a
player accidentally summon an evil twin
out of a refrigerator who immediately
stole the player's company car. Or I had
the player who could control time,
always making sure there was enough time
for the players by just looking at a
clock and confidently declaring, "We
have time." Except whenever he failed,
he was, and I quote, catastrophically
wrong. If Delta Green is competency
porn, Triangle Agency is failure porn.
My players and I loved failures in this
game. I actually though don't think they
happen often enough. The odds of rolling
no threes on 64 are about 17%. Which
means you might have a really funny
failure state for your power that never
comes up in the entire campaign. Anyway,
my point is that whether players fail
their roles or succeed but are just
doing something silly, it is very funny
in Triangle Agency when players
accidentally turn restaurants inside out
or turn NPCs into stuffed animals. But
there's me, the GM, laughing through the
tears because there were clues in how
that restaurant was laid out. Those NPCs
had something to say. So, my players had
a blast. But for me, I was just
constantly pulling fixes out of my ass,
which for my hypervigilant ass just made
me feel like Principal Skinner serving
steamed hams. And look, maybe if you're
a less hypervigilant GM than me, you'd
revel in the chaos. Like literally every
time a player uses a power, they
actually generate this currency called
chaos for every die that is in the
three. And the anomaly through the GM
can then spend that chaos generated by
the players to do anything from changing
their environment to bring in one of the
players family members into the mission.
Or it can just kill someone. And like
Jesus, I don't know where this fits into
the review, but another reason I was so
stressed running Triangle Agency is
there are just so many rules in this
game. so many more than you'd expect for
just a silly game that wants to make
people laugh. And I was just sweating
trying not to miss any of the triggers.
That's a merit, that's a demerit. I got
to spend my chaos. Your relationship
just degraded one step. So anyway, yeah,
in addition to the GM having this like
constant drip feed of chaos, which both
forces you to do things when you're busy
just trying to keep the game on the
rails, but also limits you from doing
stuff you might want to do anyway,
because actually the anomaly locking all
toilets in a 5 mile radius would be this
category of action that cost this much
chaos. So do you have it? and let's do
this procedure. And then while this is
happening, the players are amassing
merits and demerits for all these
absurdest everchanging criteria, which
is very corporate and is very funny, but
also like spoilers, but there are so
many ways for people to get merits and
demmerits in this book. And so few ways
to spend them or use them that are
actually a little pointless. And even as
I'm complaining about this, I can feel
in my belly like I'm sort of barking up
the wrong tree here because it's me
taking a game that's silly and then
taking the silly rules and then
complaining that they're not more
serious. And then the game starts to
feel like a high concept joke at the GMs
and the players expense. And this is in
fact one of the ways this game is
arguably successful because this was
intended by the designers. Let's visit
them quickly in my knowledge tower.
One thing that I also remember from my
time working with uh kids in D and D is
that they love an opportunity to pants
the teacher metaphorically speaking.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> They they cannot wait to see this
authority figure kind of look like a
buffoon or sort of gets stymied. And I
really think that's that's something
that's been baked into I think this game
from the jump is trying to make the most
pancable, you know, the the the the like
a boss that you just love to hate.
>> Our goal with the GMing of this game was
can we remove the vast majority of the
power the GM typically holds while
pretending in the text of the game that
the GM has more power, has like an extra
level of power. Um, so when you look at
the I think the mechanics of the game,
you see a lot of stuff the GM is
normally responsible for sprinkled into
the player's hands.
So that is fun. It's just that Triangle
Agency is kind of an enigma. In addition
to dismantling traditional play
structures and teaching you to play
loose and silly, it is also building
just utterly unhinged fiddly structures
of its own. And I don't think they
always work. Like just let me walk you
through how a player using their power
actually works. So in Triangle Agency,
you first declare the power you're using
and then other players can go and pee or
get a drink cuz this is going to take
somewhere between two and 5 minutes. I'm
going to use as my example the one power
that all players have that the agency
actually gives you. Strap in. Step one,
following the restrictions that you can
only affect what you haven't perceived
and can't change folks free will, you
state an effect you want to occur. Step
two, you need to name a series of
mundane events that occurred to cause
this effect. Step three, you name which
of your stats are embodying or enhancing
with this change. There are nine stats
in this game because 3 * 3 is nine. Then
you roll 64. If you got at least one
three, that's a success. If you got
three threes, that's a crit with its own
rules where you can go shopping for one
of three different benefits. This is
where your stat comes in. You can choose
to lower your stat by one for each die
you want to spin to a three. Although,
if you currently have zero in that stat,
you in fact must take one dice showing a
three and knock it over. Then step uh
I've lost count. For every die that
doesn't show a three, you generate one
chaos, which is a separate currency that
must be spent by the GM at a shop, which
has its own rules. and like, "Lads, did
you consider using the powered by the
apocalypse rules? What in the is going
on with this? If it ain't broke, let's
build a nuclear reactor in our garden
from scratch." Now, part of me does
admire the fact that this is a game
about being in an absurd bureaucracy.
Like, look at how many players carriages
there are. So, having this like ninestep
bureaucratic process when you want to
change reality is kind of thematic. But
the part of me that admires it is not
the same part that had to play with
these rules every week and watch my
players get parts of the rules wrong and
then correct them. And it's not just
that some of the procedures in this game
are really long and clunky. Some of the
powers are also bruisingly non-specific
about how they work. Like it's maybe
tolerable to have a 12step process to
resolve a skill check. It's not
tolerable to have an argument in the
middle of that process because a
player's power says it can only be used
on mundane objects. and is a car that's
being manipulated by an anomaly now a
mundane object. Maybe the designers of
this game could have spent a little less
time in the editing process of bolding
all the threes in this book and instead
bolding some keywords mundane and
anomalous. In my experience, Triangle
Agency really really drudges up that
most tedious commonality of all role
playing games, which is the sort of
small claims court of the imagination
where players lean on the most generous
interpretation of the rules to their
character. This book in being a game
about literally bending or breaking
reality saw more of these GM player
arguments than any other game I've
played recently. In another RPG, the GM
can lean on what's realistic in the
fiction, which we can't have cuz this is
a game where reality is melting. Or it
has the precise legal lettering of the
rules, which Triangle Agency doesn't
have. Because in addition to not having
an index, which just what were they
thinking? Triangle Agency is written in
three different plotheavy biased voices
as if it's in universe paperwork. All of
which is great for holding your
attention and making you laugh when
you're reading it for the first time and
makes it awful as a reference book. So
GMing this game feels like being the
wayward dictator of an unlikable regime
based on vibes. If there's a kind of GM
who would probably really get on with
this game, it's someone who reads like a
third of the book, maybe once, then
never opens it during the game, and just
plays out what they roughly remember the
feel of the book was like. In other
words, an animal. Couldn't be me. I
literally started Quinn's Quest cuz I
needed more people to know about how
modern role playing games swaddle your
experience as if in a blanket. I'm
talking about rule sets that are easy to
read, easy to learn, easy to teach, and
just result in a more robust, reliable,
good time for everyone. With Triangle
Agency, I could just never shake the
feeling that maybe the designers had
something wrong, maybe the teach in the
book had something wrong, maybe I had
something wrong. But in the end, I
didn't know if I should start dropping
parts of the rule set mid session
because they weren't adding anything.
So, I asked the designers of Triangle
Agency if at any point they were
thinking about making a simpler game.
Here's what they said. Sean might have a
different opinion here, but I never
really considered making it simpler for
two reasons. One is that something we
were hoping for especially in the early
stages when we were working on this game
was like even if it doesn't hit like and
people don't like it and our Kickstarter
doesn't do well, this will be our chance
to like put a bunch of our ideas and
thoughts and and opinions on game design
into a product that can be kind of a
gift to the other people who are
creating. Like can we make a big uh meal
for everybody to like look at and think
at and think about and have opinions on.
And then the second thing is that our
game is a lot about consequence and
about the sort of complicated unfurling
of small actions or small choices into
more complicated and uh and difficult
plates to spin. And part of making that
work is having each time you unfurl
something or each time you unlock
something giving you that feeling of
like, oh no, this is not just a new
tool, it's also a new plate to spin.
So maybe at your table that authoral
intent will come through a little more.
For me, I just felt like me, the GM, and
this book were never quite on the same
page. And here is where the vault could
have saved me. This is something sold by
the Triangle Agency developers that is a
beautiful hardback or PDF containing 12
investigations by 12 different
designers. And usually with a game like
for example Mothership, a published
module is what I reach for to give me
demonstrations of how all the ideas and
rules in the core book cohhere into a
straightforward evening of play the
players can get their teeth into that
will teach them about the world and
their adversaries and teach me how to
keep the challenge challenging the
storying and the pace pacey. And I found
out after running a couple of
investigations from this book and
reading a few more that this book is not
what I wanted. Basically, rather than
taking all of Triangle Agency's colorful
bluster and then saying, "Okay, enough
silliness. Here's the experience you
want your players to have," this book
actually further pulls Triangle Agency
in yet more directions. Because, as the
designers told me, what this book really
is is 12 different people's
interpretations
of how to run Triangle Agency. And some
of those people have never even played
the game. And like, it is full of great
ideas. It definitely shows the breadth
of stuff you might explore with this
game. From an 8-bit video game taking
over reality and forcing the players to
go on quests to an anomaly that
ties together themes of skin care and
historical Spanish colonialism to the
players disappearing into what is
basically a traffic app. It's great to
read, but it didn't answer the question
I actually had, which was, can my game
notes be any less exhausting? In fact,
I'm definitely not saying you shouldn't
buy The Vault, but this is a crazy
recommendation. I might suggest you buy
it and read it after your campaign at
Triangle Agency because I think this
book steered me in completely the wrong
direction because the investigations in
this book are all like literally
investigations. They're nuanced and long
and complicated and multifaceted. Like
if I'd never read The Vault, I think
there's a much better chance I would
have read Triangle Agency and gone,
"Woo, there is so much going on here.
This game is a farce. I'm going to give
my players literally the simplest
possible problems and then watch their
own incompetence and comedy balloon
these obstacles outwards to fill an
evening. But now, good news everyone,
with my complaint gland fully disced, I
am going to move on to the part of
Triangle Agency that I just
straightforwardly loved. It was a laugh
riot. I got no complaints.
I got some complaints. I got to cool off
in more ways than one. It is so hot in
this room. The lights are baking me. All
the windows are sealed. I'm sweating
through this shirt, which I think is
made of heat retardant fabric, and I'm
doing it for you. So, between these
investigations, which would have had my
subconscious magical thinking trying to
manifest an aspirin, you do simple
scenes in and around your character's
home lives. And where the rest of
Triangle Agency can feel like a co-dup
hipster game designer running towards
you covered in sticky notes, this part
of the game is just one simple great
idea. So, in addition to choosing your
character's anomaly and their job at
Triangle Agency, you choose why their
home life is also terrible. It's three.
You see, you get three supplemental
character sheets because it's there's
three because a triangle has three sides
because the number of sides a triangle
has is three. I hate it. I don't hate
it. It's It's all right, I guess. Maybe
you're horrifically over booked. Maybe
you're broke. Maybe you're a caretaker
of someone or something. Needy. Maybe
you're a creature who's only pretending
to be human. Or whatever you choose. You
then create three characters who are
I've just realized it's another three.
It's a secret three. I didn't realize
till I was reading my script.
So, let's say you're just the caretaker
of a baby. You might create your
terrible mother who will get custody if
you're gone, your bowling teammate who
misses you deeply, and the zookeeper who
for whatever reason your baby loves so
much more than you. And then those three
characters are played by the other
players at the table. This means that in
my home game, each of my four players
played four characters, their own player
character, and then three characters,
each of whom were deeply important to
somebody else. Like the player in my
game who was the CEO had as his three
relationships his husband Mark, his
ex-husband Mark, and the child who with
his ex-husband were pretty unified in
thinking he was a And then what's
also really nice is there's just
immediately going to be so much
diversity in these relationships because
characters pick different backgrounds.
Like maybe one player is in love all the
time and another player is just wanted
by the cops. And then what happens next
is like miraculous. From session one of
Triangle Agency, you're immediately
playing with this whole TV show worth of
characters who are all diverse and
memorable. And what's the GM doing in
all of this? Nothing. Watching.
laughing. It's so unlike the
investigations of Triangle Agency, which
at my table was so chaotic and just
dense with obstacles and dice rolls and
rules, queries, and confusion. And then
you have just this whole other half of
Triangle Agency, which is so simple and
so good. With the home lives, we just
did the scenes we wanted, which were the
scenes we were the most excited by, or
that we knew would be funniest. And then
the moment we were done with those
scenes, we chose to move on. And you
know what? In this other free form area
of the game, sometimes we did include
triangle ladency's fiddly ass rules, but
we did it on our terms. We did it when
we wanted, when it added to the game.
And you know what really funny discovery
I had during this? My players were so
good at playing NPCs, whether it was
someone's woe begotten ex-husband or an
inexplicably cool zookeeper. They
actually did a better job of playing
these NPCs than they did their own
characters often. Isn't that crazy? So,
like, why did these characters pop so
much? Um, I think at least part of it is
that this is a contemporary RPG, so you
can get a player to roleplay a zookeeper
without them being like, "Oh, hang on.
Wait, what do I need to know about
zookeepers in this universe?" But also,
I think it's because lots of players,
myself included, tend to make their
player characters really complicated,
right? You have your backstory, skills,
and stats. Then as you play, you start
getting secrets. You get things that
happened last session, get things you
want to achieve. And the core of
improvisation, improv, comedy, improv,
and role playing is your relationship is
the situation and is listening. And
triangle agency with these NPCs that
players play throws away everything
except that stuff. So, in these home
life scenes, you're not thinking about
the fact that your character is good at
bowling, but they haven't been good at
bowling recently, but they met someone
on Tinder and they're thinking about
that, and they have a PhD in civil
engineering. No, you have one note, one,
and it's that since they had a baby, you
missed them so much that you are being
weird about it, and it's great. It's
great. Which means mega unexpectedly
that contained within this book like the
flesh inside a recalcitrant walnut is
one of the best games ever for getting a
table of players better at role-
playinging or comedy or even improv
comedy.
What? But I mentioned that my complaint
gland has a squirt of juice left in it.
The thing about these home life
role-play scenes is that as players
choose how they spend free time, which
is a mechanic we'll get to in a little
bit, players are expected to roleplay
not just their overooked home life, but
also scenes within Triangle Agency and
even talking to the anomaly that's fused
with their subconscious like tea through
a strainer. The book straight up tells
you to do this. The arc of the story
you're telling will be players in one
way or another working with or against
Triangle Agency. though those scenes
become important.
Which means I find it unbelievable that
in a game about anomalies where the
players are anomalies and the book tells
you to do scenes where the players talk
to their anomalies, which is basically
the player talking to themselves. There
is not, as far as I know, a single word
in this book telling you what that
should look like. So just make it up,
Quint. I can't do that. It's more
complicated than that because everything
in Triangle Agency is more complicated
than that. Listen, there is so much
world building here about what an
anomaly is or secretly is or how you can
expect to interact with it and how you
might interact with it eventually, but
also what Triangle Agency is or secretly
is or how you can expect to interact
with it and how you can expect to
interact with it eventually. And because
the back of the book has all of these
secrets that we'll get to in a moment
that players are going to be reading by
themselves, there's a pressure to like
stick to the cannon of what Triangle
Agency and the Anomalies are or act like
they are or think they are. And sticking
to the cannon is made so much harder
because like you know how RPG books
generally and with mixed degrees of
success are written in a way to try and
make it as easy as possible for the GM
to run. Triangle Agency instead had the
idea of presenting the entire book in a
voice. In fact, three distinct voices.
And I'm not comfortable with calling
this an inherently bad thing. It is what
has won this game a lot of attention.
You see, most of this book is written
like an in universe document from
Triangle Agency with that Orwellian
corporate voice. There's even a totally
cracked out recurring reference in the
book to how the players at the table
only think they are playing a game when
in fact they really are the player
characters. But they imagine they're
playing that character as a role. And
when they do that, it's easier for them
to reshape reality. And then the very
next segment of the book sees an anomaly
kind of taking over, like hacking this
presentation you're getting. And in a
fun bit of layout work, it goes wild and
tells you that everything you've read is
a lie. And all of that is obviously
super creative. And it's actually the
designers doing something that I
encourage all designers to do, which is
drawing on their own lived experiences.
>> I think like with any art, bringing in a
skill set and information from a space
that the audience and typical creators
of that art form uh aren't familiar with
can help make your stuff look unique and
different. Mine is that I've spent years
working on trying to make really catchy
voices, you know, for kids, like figure
out how to write books in first person.
And so my whole career before this was
about voice. And so when we came to
writing the role-playing game, it was
like, can we take advantage of that? In
a past life, I straight up was
responsible for creating a genuine
company handbook for employees. And so I
had all of this stuff rattling around in
my brain just sitting there taking up
hard disk space.
>> So credit where it's due, all of this
makes this a fantastic book just to buy
and read
and also makes it so much worse for how
to actually run the game. Reading the
corporate voice of Triangle Agency for
dozens and dozens of pages did make
adopting the voice of the company
effortless for me. So that's good. But
it made unveiling the layers of what the
company is secretly doing or which of
its threats it would really act on
absolutely impossible because this voice
is misleading you. It's not even just
biased. You read the first 137 pages and
the very next page calls you an idiot.
So I could boss my players around all
day long. But when they started pushing
back against Triangle Agency or amassing
demerits or shock horror actually
investigating the company between game
nights I was left anxiously scanning
this 300page book looking for answers
that I'm still not sure if are in here
or if I just missed like a Christian in
a crisis of faith anxiously scanning the
Bible or like this book spends so much
time with the corporation saying
anomalies are dangerous aberrations of
science and then you've got this anomaly
speaking to you saying none of that's
true and that is fun. But if you're like
me, when suddenly you're tasked with
doing scenes where the players anomalies
talk to them, you'll realize that you
don't actually know what you're doing.
Like, I'm cool. I can hang. I promise. I
think the idea of an RPG rule book which
argues with itself like two divorcing
parents is a real sweet avanguard idea.
But it it it's just that like sometimes
when my friends are coming over for a
game night and I have to do my job as a
GM and I'm confused about something, I
like to know if I missed it in the book
or if I missed it in the subtext or if
it's in the book at all. So, while I did
love doing my players home scenes and
they were definitely simpler than the
investigations, I was still left
grasping for how to do the more
complicated scenes in Triangle Agency or
with the anomalies. And in any other
role playing game, I could just invent
that, but I couldn't do that in Triangle
Agency because let's move on to part
three. And this is a cool feature that I
haven't talked about yet, and it may
well be the defining cultural innovation
of Triangle Agency in our community.
It's a super cool idea, and I was sure
it was going to be the most
uncomplicatedly excellent part of this
game.
No. Although, maybe that one's on me.
Like, how did I think anything in this
game was going to be uncomplicated? All
right, let's get some energy up as I
enter the final furong.
Inspired perhaps by legacy board games
that have little boxes full of
components and secrets and mechanics
that unlock as you play, Triangle Agency
has in the back of the book an avalanche
of additional rules and world building
that players are going to unlock and
spill out onto your table over the
course of a campaign. a whopping 95
pages of it. In fact, all dense with
copyrightiting. And if you play a full
campaign, you could expect maybe 70
pages of it to come out. Although, I'll
mention here that there will be no
spoilers in this review. Just think of
it like, you know how in a lot of RPGs
your character levels up and then
unlocks a cool new power? Triangle
Agency says, "Yeah, how about as you
level up, we're going to dismantle the
entire concept of an RPG under your
feet, and we're going to do it at
different rates and in different ways
for different players." This is the
problem with being a games journalist.
You get into this job because you want
games to be wild and innovate. And then
when they try and do that, you're the
one that says, "Yeah, that didn't work."
Here's how it works. After each
investigation, players decide how
they're going to allocate a few units of
free time. Is their characters are going
to focus on their job at the agency,
which is good? Are they going to focus
on their personal life, which is frowned
upon? Or are they going to spend time
with the dangerous anomaly they're fused
with, which Triangle Agency says they
should never do? But obviously, there's
a whole ass progress bar full of
unlocks. And there's no punishment on
Earth you could threaten a player with
that would cause them to lose interest
in or deviate from a progress bar full
of unlocks. And then each time a player
hits one of these letter codes, they
turn to the corresponding passage in the
book and read it privately. And often
that means a whole new power. But it
might also mean a whole new shop of
powers. It might mean a subversive bit
of world building that now only you
know. It might also mean the next time
you roll the dice pool, you get to chuck
in the d12 with a floating eyeball in
it. And the other players are going to
be like, "What the heck is that?" and
you're going to be like, "Never you
mind." And then baked into the system of
these tracks is actually how your
campaign of Triangle Agency will
naturally or unnaturally end because
players can't explore all the tracks.
They have to kind of pick and choose.
And then players are going to want to
focus on different tracks because
obviously if no one's becoming a
corporate stoogge, then at least one
player is going to want to have all that
unique content and secrets that come
from being a corporate stoogge. Which
means actually and quite beautifully, as
the campaign goes on, your players
perception of reality will start to
drift apart. And just like that, your
campaign of Triangle Agency will build
like a shaken can of soda towards a
laughably ambitious and deranged
conclusion in which best case scenario,
the bat breaks up and worst case
scenario, reality breaks up. And again,
this is one of the things that had me
hyped to run Triangle Agency because one
of the best ways for a GM to delight
their players is just to give them some
cool handout that the game gave the GM.
Here's a secret that only you get to
read. So, imagine my disappointment when
no more than like four sessions into
Triangle Agency, my players began just
skin reading these unlocks and not
drawing their content into the game at
all. Why was that? Okay, so I've talked
about how in areas of this game, it's
just carnage to keep on the rails,
right? And part of that is because this
game's rules play about as smoothly as a
bag of lizards trying to find its way
down a staircase. You know what makes
that worse? A shipment of new rules
being added every other session. But it
gets worse. Some players are playing
with them, but not others. And where
there's not only no cheat sheet, if you
want a reference for what you've
unlocked, you've got A1, X6, and P7.
It's like playing D and D if the
player's handbook had been run through a
shredder. Also, like you know how
contained within the extra sensory
obstacle course that is being a GM,
there's that unfortunate truth that an
individual player cannot be relied upon
to remember the rules or the secrets
that are theirs and theirs alone. Like
part of being a GM is taking a player to
one side and being like, "Hey, you know,
you haven't really used that plot thread
of you being a spy for the villain." Or
like, "Sarah, you've never used that
ability. Do you want me to run you
through how it works again? You know
what makes that part of the job just the
worst?
This stuff. Just a few sessions into my
campaign, I began losing track of
everyone's secrets and rules because
they were secret. And I told my players
it had to be their job to be on top of
them. Basically, I just checked out. And
then maybe one or two sessions later, my
players checked out as well, because why
would they be interested in eight
desperate pages of hard to pass rules
when clearly the best part of the game
we were playing was their baby's
inexplicable obsession with that
zookeeper. Emotionally, legally,
narratively, my players' cups were just
full. Like after character creation,
before we even had session one, if you
count the anomalies, we had 20
characters at the table. Before we
started playing, the rules were already
too much. Then of course, when you put
an entire page of cryptic tiny text in
front of them, that of course they're
reading on their phones because there's
only one book to go around, but then
also what they're reading is a unique
kind of gnomic secret. So, no one else
at the table is going to know or even
necessarily care if that player brings
their secret into the roleplay or not.
You can guess what happens next, which
was
nothing. My players didn't buy from the
new shops. They didn't follow the new
plot twists. They'd still read their
unlockable secrets with interest, but
only in the way that you'd read a role
playing game manual that you're not
actually intending on playing. And at
that point when I as the GM was just
sweating to run this game as intended
and my players weren't doing the bare
minimum on their end to run this game as
intended, I did what this book heavily
implies should happen in a game of
triangle agency. I rebelled against the
agency. It's just that I think this book
expects the players to do it where it
was it was it was me. It was the GM. I
said no. I said we're not doing any more
investigations or any more unlocks.
Players, you can roll your stupid dice
pools if you want, but know that I am
done telling you what you can and can't
do because in our story, you've
around enough that reality is now
melting around you. And I'm going to
make this final session about your
stupid or pathetic or hateful or selfish
characters where I pull in only my
favorite random events from the quote
weather table in this book representing
the breakdown of reality and which is
like everything in Triangle Agency. A
mix of the funniest ideas you've ever
read and also stuff that I think they
should have cut. And you know what?
It was one of the greatest role-
playinging sessions I have ever had. It
was touching and sad and still very very
funny as my players tried and mostly
failed to give emotional resolution to
all their relationships and we couldn't
stop laughing the entire time thanks to
scenes that had twists like guilt weighs
heavily on the world. Everyone is filled
with apody and regrets. So my players
spent a car ride back to HQ trying to
apologize to each other for everything
that had happened to the campaign. But
then that same scene had another twist
reading that none of the characters are
allowed to forgive each other for
anything. And then with a final scene
that gives me chills to even think about
where my player characters all kind of
became self-aware and realized they were
in a role playing game. We literally
closed the book on Triangle Agency with
my players saying that game was wicked
and me saying so help me God. If I ever
open this book again I'm doing some kind
of snider cut. I'm going to break apart
this book like I'm butterflying a roast
chicken. And the moment that any of its
ideas give me any frustration, they're
going straight in the bin like a bone.
And if I understand the designers of
Triangle Agency, well, I think actually
that's a conclusion that they would
totally approve of. So, in conclusion,
do I recommend you buy Triangle Agency?
I mean, yeah, kind of. I think contained
within this game in the same way that
Michelangelo could excavate sculptures
from a block of marble is maybe the
funniest and possibly even the most
transcendent TTRPG
ever made. I think I believe that. And
certainly if you're the kind of person
who buys TTRPG books just to have lovely
objects that is enjoyable to read, sure,
great. Buy this book straight away. Oh
no. Oh no. That's That's Oh, wow. You
know, I was just thinking to myself that
when I said that deboning line, it would
be awful and appropriate if I damaged
this book. That's crazy. You know what
that is, baby? That's magical thinking.
As to who I'd recommend actually play
Triangle Agency, it's probably groups at
the two extremes. So on the one end, I
think it's groups of players who are so
invested in avantguard TTRPG rule sets
that everyone at the table can be relied
upon to shoulder the weight of this game
with its weird rules and weird world
building and all the secrets and ideas
and questions and conflicts that come
belching up out of this book. So
basically something like a whole table
of GMs or at completely the other end of
the spectrum. I think a group that would
have tons of fun with this game is
basically a whole table full of chaos
goblins who are totally unbothered with
playing the game as written. A GM who's
going to like read the book once and
then not open it again and operate it
based solely on vibes and players who
are just going to take the ideas that
make them laugh and then run around with
them like teenagers toilet papering a
house. And with that, with that, that is
the end of this review. Um, thank you so
much for bearing with me, everybody.
Reviews that are not just
straightforwardly positive are so much
harder to write. Um, so, uh, thanks to
the Queens Cross patrons for supporting
me on the journey of writing this
scripts. This was challenging. Thank you
so much as well to Caleb and Sha for
making just such a fascinating game.
Let's hear from them one more time with
some recommendations of other games that
they recommend.
>> Okay, so I have two. First one is I want
to point people toward Moonlight on
Roseville Beach from Rook Studio. Uh it
is a very small, very easy tolearn uh
game that is most compelling because of
its setting. Um paranormal investigation
in a on an island community that is
almost entirely made up of queer people.
Um, Richard Dwayne is an unbelievably
good writer of character and place. And
there is a uh, it's a really, really
amazing setting guide, even if you don't
play with the mechanics within, which
are also really interesting and doing
some stuff I have not seen too much talk
about. So, check that out. And then my
other thing is the game I've played the
most this year. I recommend everybody
here go to JDragon's Patreon and get
access to seven-part packed. If you're
looking for another ambitious and big
and complicated game that changes a lot
based on your interpretation of it, it's
so good and you can play a play test
version really really early by just a
true genius of game design. So check it
out. I just want to shout out Romcom
Drama Bomb by Ellie Davis. Uh most fun
I've had playing a TTRPG in the recent
past. Uh there it's a three-player game.
two of you are trapped in a romantic
comedy and like literally trapped
because the third person is a super
villain who is pushing you into
following the romcom tropes and has a
bomb strapped to your chest in case it
doesn't work out the way that they want.
Um, just having a game that puts you
into that tension and keeps you all like
eyes on the clock and also hitting these
big dramatic beats. Yum, yum, yum, yum,
yum. It's delicious candy and I love it.
Love it. Love it.
Thank you so much for watching
everybody. If you What the
>> Well met. I'm the knowledge knight. I
can help you in your quest for
knowledge.
>> My what?
>> We're going to be best friends.
>> Oh, I don't like where this is going.
>> If you don't like where you're going,
why not go on a quest with
[Music]
