[Music]
Welcome to Dyson Mind, a podcast hosted
by Brad Brown and Jason Kaufman to
explore the intersection of life, games,
science, science, music, philosophy and
creativity through interviews with
leading creatives. All are welcome in
this space.
[Music]
So, we've talked we've talked a bit
about the fact that um after what was an
unnecessarily long hiatus from work, I
started work in February. Mhm. And it
was through um a connection I had um at
a job that I had now approaching that I
that I took
um now approaching 10 years ago um and
was there for a couple years before the
company got sold and for its IP and we
all were kind of let go.
Um Steve who worked in one group and I
worked in another reached out to me said
there was a position open that kind of
matched my skill set. Um ironically now
we work together again but we work in
different departments than we did um at
the previous job. Well, we didn't know
it at the time, but our interests and
RPGs and sci-fi and fantasy and all that
um overlap. Um but because at our old
job um the
departments it was a bigger it was a
little bit bigger organization so our
time together was spent really in in
almost all circumstances in professional
situations and meetings and things like
that. We never really got a chance to
sync up and and do much personal
discussion or anything like that. Um
here because it's a smaller organization
we did. Um, so now he's a listener of
the podcast. Um, as of the time we're
recording this, he's a little he's he
actually has he's been listening to it
serially from episode one, you know.
Yeah, that's really cool. That's really
cool. And he is a glutton for
punishment. Um but um one of the things
I found out was
um his wife and our guest tonight um did
a podcast for a while and he showed me
some video and some pictures of
um a setup he did for one of his um RPG
adventures. Um and and for one of his
very good friends and his very good
friend's wife is our also is our guest
tonight who it turns out
is a phenomenal writer.
Um podcasting on her own.
Um just it it was it was just I mean
once once um I mean you'll all hear it.
It turned into just a really fun, really
great, really interesting interview.
Yeah. With talking with talking with
Greta about this. And so, um, once he
heard our podcast and he knew what her
background and her thing, I said, he
said, "You should just make a connection
with her." He didn't, and said, you
know, since you, you know, we're all RPG
and sci-fi and fantasy fans. And then um
once I heard that, you know, she's a
writer. Um we have to hear about her
creative process. Yep. Yeah. I mean, and
and and fortunately she was willing to
get into it and it's just it's just all
really certainly to us really
interesting. It's fascinating and she
was really she really got into the weeds
on that stuff which we we really
appreciated doing her doing. Absolutely.
[Music]
Greta K. Kelly is probably not a witch,
death or otherwise, but she can still be
summoned with offerings of two beautiful
to use journals and Butterfingers candy.
She currently lives in Wisconsin with
her husband EJ, daughters Lauraai and
Nadia, who are doing their level best to
take over the world. The Warrior Witch
duology, consisting of The Frozen Crown
and its sequel, The Seventh Queen, are
both out now. Greta's third novel, The
Queen of Days, a standalone novel, adult
fantasy, is also out now.
[Music]
Greta, thanks for joining tonight. Let's
talk writing. Yeah, let's get into it.
So, how did you, if you don't mind, how
did you
um like the broadest and most generic
question ever. Sorry to be the boring
guy, but how did you kind of get started
and what were what got kind of your
creative juices going in terms of
writing?
Gosh. Oh, well, like way back in, if you
want to start way back in the beginning,
um I was a a country kid growing up in
like the far western part of No, I don't
know if our listeners will know what
this is. Wakaasha County in the middle
of Wisconsin. Rats from a conlock. Okay.
Yeah. I was like Jennese depot. There
was nothing there. We cheers. Cheers to
far western Waka County. There we go.
Um, so really it was just you had to
entertain yourself. And entertaining
myself was just telling stories uh to my
stuffed animals and my imaginary friends
because I was the youngest of four and
my older siblings wanted nothing to do
with me. A
typical older siblings. It's
fine. Um I but the writing part didn't
really come in until later. I had a
really great group of friends in high
school and we were all really creative
but in different ways. So there was like
another writer in the group. There was a
really good visual artist. There was a
seamstress in the group. And we would
just get together and we would like just
do our creative thing and then talk for
30 minutes and then go do our thing and
then come back and talk. And it just it
just ignited that idea of
creativity could be not necessarily
solitary. It it is solitary in a lot of
times, but it doesn't have to be. And
when you're pursuing a creative field,
just having any kind of community around
you is really invaluable. Um, of course,
I was writing books all through, you
know, quote unquote air quote books. At
that point, it was like horrible Dan
Brown fanfiction. I'm dating myself
here, but yeah, we're right there with
you.
Um, but I graduated high school right
when like the market crashed in the
early 2000s and it was like, well, [ __ ]
I guess. You know, it like print media
is dead. It was like on all of the the
headlines. I was like, well, I guess I'm
not going to be pursuing journalism as a
as a major. Oh, yeah. So, I I went off
and got my business degree because that
was the practical thing to do. Yeah. Um,
and I got my first like job at a local
bank fresh out of out of college and I
was like, I freaking hate this so much.
I cannot do this. Yeah. Um, and so I I
remembered, oh yeah, I had this idea for
a book that one time. Why don't I just
like sit down on my breaks and and start
writing it? And that's what I did. Just
on my lunch breaks for probably about a
year, just the weird lady that didn't
talk to anybody and was just scribbling
in notebooks because I didn't have a
laptop at the time. And that book
eventually became The Frozen Ground,
which is my first published book. It
came out in 2021. Wow. Um, so yeah, it's
been a lifelong passion that's uh slowly
become a career. That's okay. So I I'm
curious because we we really like
getting into the mechanics of this
stuff. Um, so excuse me. So like how
long were you at the bank? Um, that job
I think only lasted like maybe a year
tops. And you and so you wrote this over
lunch and whatnot over about a year
probably. I would say about a year year
and a half because I really didn't know
what I was doing at that point. Right.
But yeah, and then and then it was
finally published in 21, right? Yeah.
Yeah. So I'm curious and you know
obviously No, no, but I I'm this is this
is really interesting to us. seriously
that so obviously there you know like
the leadup all the stuff with the
publisher the editing that takes time
but like what happened between those how
did you go from writing that and then a
considerable number of years later
getting it published like what how did
you how did you do that what what how
did you learn to navigate that cuz you
know you you were with a major
publishing house one of the big five or
six depending on your reckoning and
Right and And I mean they don't even
take unsolicited stuff, right? So going
from, you know, lunch hours to landing
something like that is pretty cool. Like
what what's the story there? That's
huge. Huge, right? So there's like two
parts to the story. There's the part
where you're writing just as much as you
want. You're writing the story of your
dreams. But then once you have that
written, you have to figure out how to
edit it because obviously that first
draft is a hot mess. I don't care who
you are, your first draft of your first
book is always going to be an absolute
disaster. And that's okay. Embrace it.
Embrace the suck. It's okay. But
learning to edit it is a whole different
process. And so I took lots of like
online classes and um I met a great
independent editor um named Rebecca
Haymon who at that time she was she had
her own um editing shingle out. I think
by the time this episode airs it's
probably will be announced in publishing
circles that she's now with Entangled.
she's taken over one of their um like
editing um imprints. So, but I I learned
from her. She she edited the book for me
that first time and just hoarded a new
one in the most loving way possible. Y
but you need that. You need to kind of
develop that thick skin to know that
these words that mean so much to you
don't mean anything to anybody else
unless you can convey all the things
that you want to. Um so that editing
process probably took another year. And
then after that, um, and granted this is
all just because I was learning at at
this point now in my career, everything
goes a little bit faster, but that's a
different story. Um, I knew that I
wanted to be traditionally published.
Uh, because indie publishing has come a
long way since 20, this was probably
about 2018, but it's still very much
like running your own business. And I
was just not that entrepreneurial at
that point in time. So, I was like, I
would like support But if you want to be
traditionally published, you need to get
an agent. And that involves a whole
other skill set that you then have to
acquire. Um, namely learning how to
write a query letter, which is like
distill your 300 400page book into two
paragraphs tops and make it interesting
enough that an agent who receives 300 of
these emails a day will want to hear
more from you. So, it's hard. Yeah. Um,
a lot a lot of authors
um, their first books die on in the
query trenches. And if there are any
writers in the crowd and this has
happened to you, please know that you
are not alone. Like most of my now
published author friends did not sell
their first books. I felt really, really
lucky that I was able to sell my first
book.
Um, those books aren't wasted. I know so
many of those authors now that have been
able to come back to those original
books. And whenever you see an author
who debuts one year and then has two
more books come out in the following two
years, those are probably older books
that they put on the back burner and
thought would never see the light of
day. Yeah, that makes sense. So, do not
lose hope.
There's nothing wasted. That's great. Um
Yeah. So, but in 2018 is when I I went
to a writing conference um in New York,
which makes me sound very bougie, but I
was terrified the whole time, but my
husband made me go. Yeah.
And um I I met an agent there and I
pitched her on the book and she she
loved it. She asked to read the whole
whole novel and um yeah within a few
months I had signed with her and that's
really cool. And then she sold it to
Harper Voyager and the the rest is
history. Amazing. Yeah. Thanks for
sharing that. That's because it's I mean
I I think like you said there's so much
more out there now in terms of
information, guidance, writers being
willing to share, but it's still I think
really hard to find successful authors
like you who are just transparently
saying here's what it was and like you
said, embrace the suck. I think you said
that before maybe before we were cry I
don't know but there's a lot of embrace.
Oh, she said it before. Yeah. Yeah. And
and And and I think to I think to talk
about that that's really that's really
honest. I think that's really important
for people whether it's writing or
whatnot who are trying to be creative
and get their work or their voice out
there, right? Cuz yeah, that's the
perennial challenge and it's getting
harder I think, right? Not not easier.
Oh, of course. Yeah. It's only it's only
getting more difficult and you know it's
always great that you have more books
more books people mean more readers are
interested you know but now we have like
the shade of AI looming over the whole
industry and I think that's making a lot
of people like clench like please no art
is not supposed to be made by computers
please let us keep our jobs
oh yeah yeah amazing at least at least
for the next 15 minutes you can kind of
tell when when you read something that
it's kind of AI generated or when you
listen to something with music you can
kind of still tell it's pseudo AI
generated and I'm hoping at least for
the time being we still are going to be
able to differentiate
um you know but but we won't I I'm I'm
holding out hope I'm really holding out
hope I know um I I find it fascinating
you were you were because I always ask
like like the goofy question like you
know what was your you know what was
your writing ecosystem like I and I got
really fascinated by this when um and it
was a more recent thing like within the
past like seven eight years when I heard
like George RR Martin talk about how he
writes on an old XT PCXT with WordStar
2000 because I'm old enough I remember
using that word processor and that it
was I mean yike. Um, but you wrote, I
mean, you literally as a writer started
by Wait, pen and paper writing. Yeah,
she was she was full-on analog,
remember? Because she said she was she
was doing that. Um, I don't do that
anymore, but No. Well, presum I mean
that's that's I mean it's very hard. You
can I mean there's nothing wrong with
like notetaking or even or things like
that doing that but that would be very
it's that's a very difficult medium when
when deep in the creation process now um
you know h you know
how and you were doing this in the
computer era let's be honest I yeah yeah
so how how you know you know as the
creativity was flowing And as you were
writing, how is that? Wait, wait, wait.
Sorry. I want to I want to interrupt
because you actually asked a question
and then backed off with the question,
but we're both interested. Greta, your
writing ecosystem like the actual Well,
that's what I was going at, but I was
focusing on the pen and paper. Oh, well,
I I I just I'm going to start in the
present. How do you actually do it now?
Like what are you using hardware
software? Like what's what's your deal?
Yeah, I have a laptop now. So, most of
the time it is a laptop on Word, you
know, very basic. But I really make an
effort not to be precious about the
ecosystem. You know, you have some
authors or some writers who who set up
these really beautiful offices and I say
this and I have a really beautiful
office, but like they can only create in
that space or they they need the
beautiful scented candle or like they
need all the conditions to be perfect.
Life is not like that. At least not my
life. I have two kids who are four and
five. I I write when I can. So, I've I I
have like notebooks everywhere and
sometimes I'm taking notes in my
notebooks or or writing little scenes in
notebooks and then transcribing them on
my computer. Um I have done snippets on
my phone at 2 in the morning while
feeding a newborn because I I was on a
deadline. So, like however like don't
don't have like the movie version of
what a writer is supposed to look like
and how they're supposed to work like
stop you from actually just putting
words on the page. So, you don't you
don't live at a Starbucks? No, sadly.
Not the digital nomad approach. But you
but you hit it on the head. I mean, I
think I think going back to what I said
about like Martin, I think he destroyed
that by talking about writing on a an
old beige device using a 30-year-old
word processor, you know, and you're
still using you're still putting pen to
paper. Yeah. When you need to. Yeah. You
know, it's it's really about it's really
the medium isn't so much as the as the
result. you know, absolutely. Um, and
sometimes switching things up, just like
silly things like like switching to pen
to paper if you're normally someone who
types or leaving yourself a voice memo
is a really good way to trick your brain
into creativity when you're not feeling
creative. Um, but the muse doesn't come
to you, you have to go to the muse. So
like whatever whatever helps you, you
know, reach the point where you feel
like h finally I'm inspired again. like
switch it up if if you ever get into
that um writer's block sort of
mentality. Want to bookmark talking
about genre at some point, but that's
Yep. That's was on my mind. Yeah, I
wanted to I wanted to bookmark that so
we don't forget it. But I was going to
ask also um from a timing perspective
when you're in writing mode and you
know now all of us have all three of us
are dealing with two kids just at
different age levels. So, we know what
it's like, you know, coring children.
Um, how do you, you know, when you're
deep in writing mode, how much time are
you putting in on a daily basis? Oh,
yeah. Or or like word count. I mean,
like what's good for you? Yeah. I I try
not to worry about word count too much
unless I'm in like a fast drafting kind
of mode and then I do keep track of word
count um in an Excel file just because
I'm stupidly competitive and I'm always
trying to like beat the previous day's
work. Um, but most days I I wake up I
try to wake up before the kids. Um, and
they wake up god awful early. And how
how I'm usually awake by five. Oh my
god. How How old are they? Four and
five. Oh, I Oh my god. Okay. Yeah. So,
um, so I usually get an hour, hour and a
half in in the morning and then, you
know, get them up and ready for school
or daycare or at home depending on what
day it is. And then they usually have
either a nap time or independent play
throughout the day. I'm a stay-at-home
mom at this point. So, um, so my
schedule very much depends on what
they're doing. And I'm really sad that
they just gave up naps because I've lost
so much. It's it that's hard. Yeah.
Yeah. But I mean, the upside upside is
that they they like each other. They'll
play with each other. They're more
independent now. So, I can like sneak
into my office and do a little 20-minute
writing sprint here and there. If it
helps about a decade from now, they
won't want to get up at all in the
morning. So, you'll have plenty of time.
And I'm thinking sweet, sweet vengeance
is mine. That's right.
Yeah. Mine are about a decade Mine are
about a decade ahead. And now I'm at now
I'm at a point where I really don't see
them. And um while I don't miss
having to corral and all of that like I
did younger, it I wouldn't mind seeing
them a little bit more. Yeah. you know,
but but yeah, I just I was just curious.
I was just curious just from a timing
perspective. Everyone's different and
and I I didn't say this. I'm I am the
non-writer of the group really. Oh,
okay. So, um it's I know you smirk, but
I just I don't do it like like you do
like you both, you know. No, no, it's
you know I Well, I have a different type
of job. I just don't spend that much
time doing it. Neither of us are legit
writers. I think it's clear to say it's
well you do more non-fiction type of
writing and research type of writing and
stuff like that but but I literally
don't write you know so um so I'm always
with coming up but yeah go ahead yeah I
just am fascin I'm just fascinated by by
all this so how did you kind of you know
obviously the story the frozen crown the
story obviously flowed from you um you
know you you love working in that genre
um you know and you've continued in that
genre. Um, what's kind of drawn you into
that realm and kept you in that realm?
Yeah. Gosh, I think like most people of
my age group, Harry Potter, you know,
say what you will now about um the
author, they're still great. It's
they're still great books. It's still a
great story. Yeah, it drew so many so
many people in my generation into
reading in general. Uh, but for me,
fantasy. And then right on the heels of
that, the Lord of the Rings movies, the
original trilogy came out. And my dad is
a huge Lord Lord of the Rings fan. Cool.
And so he would not let any of us of us
kids watch the movies until we had read
all four books. Um, and so that was kind
of like, oh, okay, so here's what like
adult fantasy looks like, and this is
what I could do with it. And I basically
never looked back. So between that and
and playing D and D and tabletop role
playing games, I I was a goner.
Oh, interesting. She opened the door.
Yes, she did. Okay, so say more about
that, Greta. Yeah. What What did you or
do you play? I I am going to play uh I
do currently still play um with your
coworker, Steve. He's our DM and has
been for probably 10 years now. Wow. Um
I do I play an arcane trickster. Uh
Tiffling, of course. And that she's my
favorite character. She's a pure chaos
gremlin and I love her dearly.
and the and and you all I mean when you
when you all game I've seen Steve Steve
Steve Steve Steve Steve Steve Steve
Steve Steve Steve Steve Steve Steve
Steve Steve Steve Steve Steve Steve
Steve Steve Steve and I do actually
Steve listens to these um and we do work
we literally do work a lot and we just
take very rare because we don't normally
lunch we'll take very rare breaks and
he'll pull up like we'll talk a little
bit about something on an episode or
we'll talk about what what you and his
wife do which we will get to at the end
because I do want to bring it up um
because you actually have a podcast that
we want to talk about. Um, but he'll
bring up some of the stuff that you all
do from a role playing perspective,
which is like next level. I mean, you
guys dress up and Jason Jason I have I
have purposefully Yeah, I'm I'm like
totally in the dark on this, which is
Yeah. Yeah. Jason does it. I didn't tell
him a lot about this because I partially
not because I I wanted to be mean, but I
kind of like watching some of his
reactions with some of this stuff cuz I
I call at droll and boring, but this is
much better. Yeah, I like the Kaufman
grin to see the Kaufman grin sometimes.
Um, so he doesn't know about some of
this and he has shown me um like even
some of like the intros he does with the
movies when he when you guys get
together, but you guys have been playing
for like a decade. We have and not all
the same game, you know, come and go,
but um between D and D and we also play
7C
rarely. we can all get the group
together to play 7C, but we love it. And
he he Steve is such a great DM and he's
like created 80s themed games and 30s
themed games. We both played the 80s
themed game. It's maybe better to move
on.
But yes, we dress up as much as we can.
Well,
that's I just I have like three
different things going on in my head
right now. Keep going. I'm gonna come
back with a question or two.
Um, yeah. And you've you've even like
more recently done um like a Star Wars
theme game, but you didn't use
um from my understanding, he didn't use
any of the existing Star Wars games. It
was literally a D20 system that was
modified for Star Wars.
Um, so it was able So, yeah, because I
think you all have been used to using
kind of the same type of dice mechanic
and the same system. So, it really kind
of just modified and and utilized. And I
mean, honestly, I mean, you know, from
what I saw from some of the videos and
all that, the the costumeuming was Yeah.
And he like completely renovated his
basement. Like his basement was your
like an average basement. And between
Steve and um one of his sons and our
friend Dan and my my older brother Carl
also plays with us occasionally. They
all like I don't know how many months
they spent like building the Millennium
Falcon out in his basement and no one
like we knew something was happening but
we Ed and I didn't know what it was and
my my husband is a huge huge Star Wars
fan and so this was kind of Steve's
surprise for Ed. And so it was I think
three years ago now. So, we've been
we've been playing one a year. We're
trying to complete the
trilogy. So, this year we're hoping to
complete the trilogy. Like the first
time he walked down there, did he just
look at you with a grin and say, "Chew,
we're home." Yeah. He's like, "Justin,
kill me now. I I can die." I from the
videos, I think you went down first
before Ed, right? So, you got to see it
before Ed got a chance to. Yeah. That's
really That's really love. Okay. But so
I mean obvious like we're we especially
me big into sci-fi, right? That's always
been my thing when it comes. It's it's
pretty much I mean sadly but truly it's
pretty much the only fiction I read. I
mean I I have some fantasy, don't get me
wrong. Like Lord of the Rings like
there's just nothing that compares to
the depth and beauty of that. But but
but you know, you're all into that, but
yet you write exclusively in the fantasy
genre, right? But no internal issue
there, right? I mean, you do you enjoy
both sides of that coin or I I do um I I
definitely read more fantasy. Um but
this year I joined um I'm one of the
co-hosts of SFFF Addicts podcast now. Oh
yeah. Which stands for science fiction
and fantasy. So we I I have been
broadening my horizons and reading a lot
more sci-fi recently and it's been
great. And we've gotten to interview
some really amazing sci-fi authors. We
just got John Scholsey. We interviewed
him. Um JS Dis actually is another
Wisconsinite. So, if you haven't heard
of any of her books, you should
definitely check them out. They're
stellar. They're great. Really, I'm
keeping my hands off the keyboard right
now. Jason has a problem of Brad is Brad
has bought many things on Amazon mid
episode. I kid you not. Yeah. Well, I
mean, Jenny had the best book for her
book. I I think the first one was The
Last Watch. And it was basically Oh
crap. The Night's Watch. Is that what it
was in Game of Thrones? The Night's
Watch in space.
Oh. Oh, yeah.
See, I I had trouble I I had trouble not
not I had trouble with Game of Thrones
at first. Not for any like ethical
reasons. It was just like hyper intense.
And I'm the type of person where like if
work was intense, I couldn't come home
and watch intense television. I needed
something light. I'm the same way
sometimes, too. Yeah. And especially
with grim dark because you just know
that no one's going to be happy. I like
to think that, oh, maybe this one person
will get out alive or, you know,
materially unharmed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Martin wasn't helping with that.
No.
But but
um I see I I've seen enough pieces over
time with
with Night's Watch and Jon Snow and and
and those parts of
um Game of Thrones and
um and I've read some of the books um
because I've just been fascinated by him
as an author just him as him as an
author and what his creative process and
everything like that and the fact that
those toms are just insanely huge. Um
that I just don't know how he doesn't
plot like everyone writes differently,
but how I it boggles my mind. I'm always
someone who has to plot out my my book.
So I don't know how he So this is this
is this is good cuz we're curious about
this. It's cuz this is like this is what
turns me off from ever considering
trying to write legit fiction.
Plot.
I know. I'm I'm dead serious. Like I can
I I you know, non-fiction like I can
outline like crazy. Like I the
organizing that comes naturally to me.
And Jason GMs for us for Star Trek. So
he you do plot you do plot in a way. But
well that's but that's a I'm not very
good at it. The the the GMing and B
that's like sell yourself short. But but
it's true. But that's really brief too,
right? I'm talking about like a novel.
like the notion of having to plot out
that entire story that that truly just
blows my mind. I don't know how how you
and others do that start to finish. I
mean, I'm sure that it's it evolves, but
still. For sure. I mean, yeah. And like
with plotting, I was honestly I was the
same way for a long time. I I thought, h
that's not like the romantic like idea
of what a writer is supposed to do.
you're just supposed to like sit down
and and write the thing and let
inspiration come. And I wrote an
entire Gordian knot of a disaster book
that will never see the light of day
that way. And so like when I was when I
was writing The Frozen Crown, um I was
like, well, I have to do something
different. So I I started researching
plot. And you can go like as as deep in
the weeds as you want to with story
structure and with outlining your scenes
before you start writing. Um, I have a
friend, uh, MJ [ __ ] who writes amazing,
um, books, she calls them about asses,
axes and
[ __ ] So, among thieves. Check that
out if you want to. Um, but she will
Excel spreadsheet her outlines, and I'm
not quite at that level yet. Yeah. Yeah.
Um, but, you know, to each to each their
own. Um, I tend to use, um, it's the
seven-point plot structure. I think Dan
Wells, an author called Dan Wells is the
one who popularized it. And it's really
just like seven plot points that you
like seven beats that you should hit.
And it's very like, and it's very
familiar, like anyone who's ever read a
three-act story will kind of understand
like, oh, okay, there's the inciting
incident, you know, Harry Potter getting
his Hogwarts letter. There's like the
the midpoint climax. There's the dark
knight of the soul, usually when the
mentor dies or um in a romance it's when
the couple breaks up and then there's
like the the battle scene, the climax.
It's like just seven points. So if
that's all you do, you have your seven
points in your head, then you just kind
of write towards those. And for me, I
think the most liberating thing about
that is that at some point I realized,
oh, I'm not chained to this outline. I
can veer away from it if I need to, but
the outline is there in case you get
lost in the weeds. You can kind of like
work your way back to it. Um, so yeah,
just think of it more as like a
guidepost rather than a thing that you
have no choice but to follow. Yeah.
Yeah. I would say from a process
perspective, it kind of it like you
said, it's like
it's you're on a nature trail. It gives
you it gives you guides to walk the
path. You can you can still take you can
still walk away from it. Yeah. But you
know where to step back to so you don't
end up way off of Yeah. I can find that
thread. Yeah. And I think also like you
have to know how your brain works. Like
I'm so I love a checklist. Like give me
a checklist any day and my brain is
happy just marking [ __ ] off of that.
Yep. With my third book, I wrote that
during um they don't do it anymore, but
they used to do National Novel Writing
Month or Nanorimo in November where a
bunch of crazy people got together and
tried to write 50,000 words just in the
month of November. And that's how I
wrote the first draft of my third book,
uh, The Queen of Days. And I never
50,000 words in a in a in a shortened
month with a holiday. Yeah. Yes. But I
did it because I love a checklist.
Well, you had me at you had me when when
you said when you said was it was it she
m she tried to merge Excel and writing
together. I'm like cuz I'm No, no, I'm
with you. I No, I'm with that. Yes. Yes.
I I that makes sense. So, do do you tend
to work on one novel at a time or are
you actively writing more than one major
project? Um, and ideally I prefer to
work on one novel at a time, but usually
how it it's been shaking out is all like
in the morning I'll be just drafting
something new and then the afternoons I
might be editing something. Oh, a
different one. Right. So, yeah. So I
don't I try not to like draft two
projects at the same time because I
think that would be make my brain
explode. Yeah. But but the act of
writing and the act of editing use
different parts of the brain I think. Um
so it's it's different enough that I can
get away with it with your with your
creativity. Have you ever thought you
know with with gaming and everything
like that you know now obviously there
is a time component to this but you know
like leading games as a as you know I
know I know I with what time I've got
I want to I have like this don't I was
going to say don't tell Steve but he's
probably listening to this I have like
the seeds of like a game or two like in
the back of my head um that I I would
maybe like to actually DM someday. I
don't know why it makes me so nervous
the thought of DMing. I think because
unlike writing,
it's collaborative. It's collaborative
storytelling. And all good DMs are such
not only such good listeners, but
they're really good at pivoting. So I
I'm someone like, "Oh, I I know what in
in my books I control everything. I know
what's going to happen. I might have
played with these gremlins for 10 years,
but I don't know what they're saying
next. I can't anticipate that. Um, so I
think that's what's kept me from DMing
so far, but I think someday I might I
might DM again. We'll see.
Yeah. you and and you know what's funny
is is so Steve and I worked together 10
years ago um at a different company in
different positions
and you know just kept in touch very on
the periphery just because different
lives different jobs everything like
that and then connected for this role he
recruited me into this role and then
just on the just I don't even know what
prompted me to even mention the fact
that that we do this podcast and then we
started talking about gaming
And then now as we're in meetings
together
um in the role he has now it's a
creative role. Um but it's funny how you
can see and and you know Jason and I we
talk about the idea of gaming in the
professional arena and how that and you
you know you've worked in the
professional arena. you have a business
degree. So, you could no doubt you can
see this how you can use those skills in
um in the professional world and have
them benefit and I was even talking
about this with him
must have been yesterday. No, it was
actually today.
Um, and how I can actually, you know,
the the idea of like gaming gamifying
situations when things come up or, you
know, situations that could escalate
into conflict and how to step back from
those. And he's very good now at at
deescalating conflict. Um, but you can
see the GM, you could almost can I can
watch I can watch the DMI. Steve, if
you're I know you're listening to this.
I can see your GMIs working when we're
hear the clink of a couple dice hitting
the tabletop somewhere. All right. Yeah.
Someone told me that I should get one of
the guys I used to work with in
Tennessee said I should get like those
large those large uh D20s and if people
come in for meetings just say okay roll
for initiative. I just say that's that
is the proper way to start all meetings
roll for initiative you know. So, I
think I I wonder if Steve has him in his
office. I'll have to see him. If he
doesn't, then I might I might jump on
that. But on this notion of of GMing and
and playing just RPGs and tabletop stuff
is dressing up or not, right? Um, you
know, I I don't know if Brad said this
to you uh before, but like we're
increasingly focusing on the notion of
RPGs as literature. Yeah. Right. Like
just reading them for their own sake,
right? It's it can be an expensive
proposition, but just, you know, picking
these up and reading them and enjoying
them and hopefully be like being fueled
by that. Um, and I'm curious given how
accomplished you are writing fantasy,
like are there are there games
um, in or out of fantasy, doesn't
matter, are there games that you have
found over the years really kind of fuel
that creative fire for you? like things.
Are there games or specific books in any
games that you just enjoy spending time
with even if you have no interest in
playing them?
Uh, I think yeah, I I absolutely I I'm
one of those people that really got into
like Critical Role during the pandemic.
One of the many people that Yeah. Right.
So I and I I love D and D. I will
probably never play like a game quite
like anything that they produce, but
just seeing that and watching other
people play at that I guess at that
level Yeah. is so inspiring and it's
like, oh dang. Like that's what you can
do with a really amazing
um a group of of players and a great DM.
And I I feel very fortunate because I I
do have a group that's amazing and we do
play um like I I think I said before we
also play seven um which is an older
game that does not get as much love as I
think it should because it
is so much fun. So if anyone like
doesn't know about what 7C is, it's a
tabletop game kind of like D and D.
There's less like you don't have to
worry. It's more I think it's like dice
pool like you you just roll like your
pool. I think it's D10s. Um, but it's
very much ruled by the rule of cool. So,
it's like you can try it. It's a
probably a good chance that you'll get
it because it's very much
actionoriented. So, if you ever wanted
to play, you know, Enigo Mononttoya in
Princess Bride, like play it in that
game system because you will get all of
those cool piratey hero Aerrol Flynn
type moments in that game. Um,
interesting. Yeah. And I think like from
the perspective of a
storyteller, like there's no better way
to learn about characters and emotional
arcs than by playing role playing games.
Um, it's what inspired my my third book.
I always say my third book is loosely
based off of a game of 7C we once played
like D and D. I can't remember at this
point. Yeah. It was like we were trying
to rob a bank. We got and everything
went wrong. Like the moment we walked
in, we got made. Like they knew exactly
who we were. We couldn't find the safe
or we couldn't find the the vault. Once
we got to the vault, we couldn't open
the door as one does in any role playing
game. We like set fire to the place. The
whole city guard was searching for us.
It was just an absolute catastrophe. And
we should have left the table so
frustrated. and instead I drove home so
excited and like fire in my veins
thinking how can I make this a book. Um
that's cool. Yeah. So and I you know the
rest is history but yeah more people
need to be playing role playing games.
Yes, strongly agree.
I I think you know not only just as a
means of I mean obviously collaboration
camaraderie like the typical stuff you'd
think I think there's you know like we
like we've talked about that there's
professional benefits from it you know
I've talked about using it in in in in
an environment just as a means of
breaking the monotony and you know
teaching the team to solve issues of an
unusual nature but
not not using the the tools and
everything that they're used to using on
a daily basis. Yeah. Um but like you
said, there's I mean, you can get you
can get a rush from failure,
but but that you know, it's the the old
business adage, you you know, if you're
going to fail, fail fast and move on.
You know, this is an opportunity to do
that in a sandbox. Yeah. And learn learn
how to fail fast as a team and learn how
to recover. Yeah. Um, and and if you're
doing it with friends, I mean, it's just
honestly, it's just good for the soul to
have that kind of fun to be able to
explore and experiment with depth of
meaning, but no real life consequence.
Like that's just good for people. Yeah.
And I think unlike video games, and I'm
not a video game person, so I'm, you
know, I'm biased here. You're kind of
forced to go through the story. Like how
many people who play video games ignore
the story and just trying to get to the
fight scene? Like there's no doing that
really in a role playing game. You're
forced to sit with the consequences of
your actions. And I think empathy
is a dying art unfortunately in this day
and age, especially among people who
grew up just playing video games and not
doing much of anything else. So yeah,
it's like there's all kinds of ways to
learn from, you know, nerdy ass role
playing games.
And there's nothing wrong with I know a
lot of it they're trying to computerize
now, but I'm but Jason and I are still a
fans. There's nothing wrong with going
back and doing some pen and paper. Yeah.
You know. Oh yeah. So I still I know you
know as a considering I have a PDF
library that's inord
inordinately large of games but I still
love having the palatable book right. Oh
yeah. Yeah. I mean, but you'll Yeah.
You'll you'll you'll pry the physical
book for my cold at hands, as Charlton
said. But still, I think the the tech if
it's in the service of all the rest of
this, then it's then it's great. Like
like you and I, you know, you and I um
this is this was one of the rare times
where I ordered an RPG book before you
did. Like I had to be one of the first
like as soon as it was announced, I was
like boom, pre-order done. Um but but
like the as so often now the PDF comes
out of these books and then it'll be
months can be six eight months before
the the the print comes out and so it's
nice to have the option right of at
least perusing a little bit while you
save it. Yeah. It's you just like
virtual tabletop stuff right which we
haven't gotten into yet but it's
probably inevitable at some point. Well,
we play we play just because of our the
the little group that we play with.
Yeah. I mean, you're Minnesota. I'm
here. One of the other guys that, you
know, South Carolina plays, he's in
South Carolina. I mean, this is Yeah.
Like having this discussion right now,
which is wonderful. Like, this is the
only way this would work, right? Yeah.
Otherwise, we'd be in some Starbucks
with our laptops and that would be super
cliche.
Nothing wrong with that. Yeah. No, no,
no judgment. Hey, so I I not to digress
from the writing. I want to also be
cognizant of your time because you do
have little ones at home, but you
alluded to this before and I know a
little bit of this obviously. You are
also involved in some podcasting
yourself. Yeah. Talk to us about it.
Yeah, please. Yeah. Uh I well I mean I
first got into the notion Steve's wife
Claudia is a good friend of mine and for
a minute there at the beginning campaign
3 of Critical Role we had a YouTube
channel called Bitters and Critters and
we talked just about like our love of
Critical Role and Dn D in general and
all all sorts of other like nerdy stuff.
Um for us campaign 3 was a little bit
meh compared to the other ones so we we
shuttered that. Um, but now I am
podcasting with uh MJ [ __ ] who's
another fantasy author, as well as
Adrien Gibson, and he is a science
fiction um like gritty noir style of of
indie author. And so it's called SFFF
Addicts podcast, and we do uh weekly to
bi-weekly interviews with all sorts of
um authors from Joan Brami to Fonda Lee
to John Scholsey. And we also do master
classes. So, if you ever want to know
anything about the nitty-gritty of
writing and publishing, we probably have
a master class where some famous person
you've heard of has dug down into the
nitty-gritty. Just another rabbit hole
we're about to fall down. Thank you.
Yeah. And so you and we'll have that
information for listeners in the show
notes. So,
and you add that so that's now obviously
on top of your writing and everything
else you have you have going on. Yeah.
I'm so good to be and I like how how
you're just Well, I'm a stay-at-home mom
now. Oh, yeah. I mean, just like nothing
going on. It's Yeah, I know. It's not
It's not like a whole job in itself,
right? Exactly. Exactly. I mean, there's
the beating of the children, there's the
making just Yeah.
So, without
without going into any details, yep,
you're How many projects are on your
plate at the moment?
Uh, right now I've got one on
submission, which means we're trying to
sell it to a publisher currently. Um,
I've got another one that I'm drafting,
and then I very randomly had an idea for
a thriller book, so I'm trying to
outline that now. Cool.
So, we'll see what happens there. Yeah.
Holy moly. That's
excellent, man. Thank Thanks so much for
spending so much time with us this
evening. This is so interesting. Thank
you so much. Really really appreciate it
and and for your cander. Oh, of course.
Yes. This was an absolute pleasure. I
would love to talk to you guys again.
Yeah. When you when and when you have
when the books come out, we'll have you,
you know, as projects come out, let us
we'll we'll keep up with you and we'll
let let us know and we'll have you back
on. That'd be awesome. Thank you,
[Music]
Greta. Thanks for so much for joining.
We really appreciate it. We're going to
have you back again. Um, have to talk
about booksto Oh, yeah. Yeah. Especially
considering you come from the area. Um,
we have stories about independent
bookstores. Jason, you have a you have
stories of independent bookstores up in
the cities. I know you visited them out
in the Bay Area. you visited them out
over in the UK. I think it's fair to say
all three of us love independent
bookstores. Oh, yes. Yeah, absolutely.
But let's head over to uh the Lon Cafe.
I'm going to ask you first, what's um
what's on your desk? What are in your
ears? What's what's what's on your
bookshelf? Yeah. So, um what's in my
ears as it were regarding what's in my
on my desk and like what's what's from
my pen? So, after we spoke with Greta, I
looked into the podcast FFF Addicts and
SFF Addicts. SFFF, Sci-Fi Fantasy
Addicts. I I didn't hear the S at the
beginning. So, yeah, SFF Addicts. So, um
and I don't know how I didn't know about
this before or or at least had not
listened to it. So, Greta, thank you for
setting me straight. So, um, since we
chatted with Greta, which was not long
ago as we record this, uh, I've listened
to a few episodes and, um, I've listened
to a few of the episodes which they
label master classes, uh, the ones that
get into the publishing business, but
especially um, how to find a literary
agent, how to write a query letter,
things like Yes. things like like that.
And so thank you for that because Greta
and team because uh those set of
episodes that they recorded over the
past several years, right? They're
spread out over their really really
large I mean many hundreds of
episodes. Uh those uh actually have been
influencing my practice this past week
as I move forward with some of my own my
own projects. So, that's what what's
been on my desk as it were. How about
you, Brad? Oh, goodness. I don't know. I
can't top that.
Um, yeah. I from my perspective, I think
I kind of had alluded to you outside of
the podcast and all that that um I had
fallen into
um looking into some high fantasy stuff
um because I had I needed to switch
gears in terms of some world building
stuff as I had worked through um my
Gersps project.
Um and
um with one of our future guests, we're
going to talk about um some we're going
to be talking about some RPG products.
We are um we are um and so I I don't
want to give a whole lot away right now
because it's very early, but um
you know what, I'll give a piece of it
away because we could talk more about it
in as we go along. But um there is a
game out there. I'm surpris No, I'm not
surprised because we we have sat in we
sit a lot in the sci-fi realm. Um we we
dabble in high fantasy um with Dn D. We
did a little bit with Pathfinder, but
first edition more so with high fantasy
really when it comes to like fantasy age
and all that. That's what I was just
going to say. Yeah, that's where we
that's where we've kind of gotten our
fantasy our our high our high fantasy
fix with with especially first with
first edition. We really haven't um had
time to play second. We just haven't.
No, we haven't had time to play
anything, let alone second edition yet,
but we just love the 3D6 system. Yep. um
from Green
O'Ne. But I've always been fascinated by
the retro clones. The Sorry, I wasn't
going to use that term because that's
not the right term. Um derogatory cough
cough. Yeah, that that's a mean way of
that's that's that's not the right way
of putting it. But but systems that have
used like this the original versions of
gaming systems from like the 70s and and
80s
as ancestral
um what's the best way to put it? Um
like inspiration. Yeah. Well, yeah.
Absolutely. Absolutely. You know, that's
the best word. Infused with it, informed
by it. Absolutely. But, but go but but
they're different. Um, one of the
companies that I came across is a
company called Goodman Games.
Um, I had heard of it a little bit, but
because we've lived elsewhere, I haven't
I hadn't really dug in. Um, but I
started digging into it and they have
they published a game called Dungeon
Crawl Classics. Um, the more I got into
it, their core rule book, um, I think
now it it's it first of all, it's
immens. It's like 500 pages. Um, second
of all, it's 500 pages. If you want the
paperback version of it, you can get the
paperback version of the core rule book,
which is really the only thing you need
other than dice to um be a guide or game
master, a dungeon master, whatever you
want to call it, and or a player in the
game. You don't need a plethora of
books. You just need that. But the
paperback version is only like 29 bucks.
So, it's there is a very inexpensive
entry point into playing in in their
system, right?
Um, and then along with that, um, it's
written in a way, the term that always
comes up that people talk about is that
it's zany. It's a z it's it's written in
a zany way. It's a zany system. They
write it in a way that is for folks that
both can be new to gaming or can or
folks who have good memories of playing
in the 70s 80s like when I was a kid and
got the red box um original um basic Dn
D um like in ' 84 85 as a kid. Yeah. Um,
so more to come on that, but um, I've
become a real fan and that's I've been
reading it and lots of there are lots of
tables and things in the book, but I'm
reading it like literature. Yeah, there
it is. And and it's fun. It's a fun
read. Um, and there's more there's more
about it, but we'll talk about that in
future Lon Cafes. That sounds good to
me. So, we're just going to leave it
there because we do, man, we have so
much coming up and we're really pleased
that like this week and in the coming
weeks, coming couple months, really, oh,
really the summer as a whole. Um, we're
really able to bring you all, our dear
listeners, a true diversity of
I was just going to say because we've
we've kind of stacked our guest list
because you have a lot going on. and I
have some things going on. It just
summers are ironically difficult.
Summers are difficult, but this year
this is probably going to be one of our
more diverse guest lists in a long time
and I'm really happy about that. I'm
really happy we can bring all of you
that. So, with that said, you all know
the deal.
Be well, stay well. We'll see you in a
couple weeks.
[Music]
