[Music]
Welcome to Dyson Mind, a podcast hosted
by Brad Brown and Jason Kaufman to
explore the intersection of life, games,
science, science, music, philosophy, and
creativity through interviews with
leading creatives. All are welcome in
this
[Music]
space. I'm going to sound a little
raspier than normal. I don't know what
it is if it's if it's the spring or
what, but um I have
um I've been run the running joke is
that at this weekend I was dangerously
close to sounding like Bobcat Goldweight
from Police Academy any day really but
go hug.
Um our our guest, our friend Erin Pier
joins us today and
um love talking about tech and games and
our our oversight that he hasn't been
back since episode 72. Yeah. And that's
and that's absolutely crazy because the
stuff that we talk about, we could like
make multiple episodes on this. This
should be like this should be like an
eight episode arc with what we would
talk about like starships alone.
The idea of him when we originally
talked with him about the idea of
thinking of starships as player
characters. Yeah. in the original
episode when we talked about him that
was so profound that um you know and
especially because within weeks then we
spoke with Thomas [ __ ] and so between
the two of them it was like so much Star
Trek online ships I mean unbelievable so
but but this now I full disclosure we
end up talking a lot about the tech in
the brand new upand cominging Star Trek
Adventures technical manual but that's
not really our point. No, but it's a
it's a it's good content, but good
context, right? Yes. Yes. But but but
there's a
broader it was part of a broader
intended discussion and and discussion
that occurred. Yeah. And and and and we
went there and beyond which again, Erin,
thank you. But you know, Brad, one of
the things that always has drawn and
continues to draw me into sci-fi role
playing
games is the tech. Now, no surprise, not
unique, but with different genres or
subg genres, it it looks and feels
differently and you get to play with the
tech differently. So, for example, um
you have Star Trek, which is, you know,
very much supposed to be a history of
the future. And so, don't get me wrong,
like Star Trek has taken as many
liberties as is possible with
technology. Don't even get me on to
biotech and how apparently one can mate
anywhere in the galaxy and still have
viable offspring. But that said, it has
that tech has a very different shiny but
futurereal feel than like Star Wars
where it's this very much sort of
retro used dingy tech but super
high-tech
versus something like whenever whenever
Mongoose releases it, please may it be
soon. uh the pioneer game which is right
immediate or near future like perhaps
over the next century and then again you
have tech but if you look I know you
haven't dug deep into those but even
games we we've talked we've talked with
folks at freely going to like those dark
places and death in space those are
really heavy gritty spacebased
yes rpgs where the tech is like you said
gritty
functional but or pseudo functional.
It's it's, you know, it's push buttony.
You know what I mean? It's not it's not
shiny hologram type of it's not what do
you I I'm I'm neglecting my verb. It's
but it's it's it's realistic isn't quite
the right word, but I think that's where
we're going, right? And that's the
that's the beauty of tech in sci-fi
tabletop. But you're going to say tech
in space. Space. Space. Space. Space.
Very good. That's where I thought you
were going. No, but I should have in
retrospect. Well done. Yeah. Um Yeah.
Yeah. I just I I was I was really glad
that that Aaron was able to join us and
talk through this and and obviously talk
through the tech manual um because he
had a he had a big role to play in that.
Big role to play. But yeah, the idea as
well too cuz he had roles to play in um
in obviously the other star in other
Star Trek books like my favorite my
other one of my other favorites you know
Shackleton Expanse never heard of it. No
kidding. Um, yeah, he's had his he's had
his Utopia Planatia, which is I mean,
just imagine still my absolute if if I
had not heard of STA and I had gotten my
hands on Utopia Planation. That would
have been the hook book for me. That
would have been the conversion moment.
Oh god. Yeah. Same same here. Take my
money, please. Yes. But we should we
should get over to the interview because
there's so much that Aaron covered. Uh,
and rest assured everybody, we will be
having him back in approximately 70
episodes or or hopefully fewer in about
70 minutes. There you go.
[Music]
Aaron Paulier has a background in
astronomy and physics, but currently has
a day job dealing with climate change
and its intersection with agriculture.
He has been a lifelong Star Trek fan and
has been working as a freelance writer
for Star Trek Adventures since it began.
In his free time, Aaron may be found
gazing through his telescope, reading a
good book, or doing historical
reenacting with his wife.
[Music]
So, as we just said before we hit
record, we're just jumping in um because
we probably would have started talking
and ultimately lost Yeah. lost probably
about 30 minutes of good conversation.
So, Aaron, thanks again for joining us.
Yeah, big time. It's good to have you
back. Yeah. Um we're going to talk Glad
to be here. Yeah. We're going to talk
tech manual and more.
Yes. We'll go we'll go where the
conversation takes us, but but if it's
okay, let's start let's start with with
the tech manual and and if you don't
mind, how did how did you end up Okay,
sorry. I'm going to interrupt you right
away. Oh, come on. Yeah. I was just
looking at our notes. No, no, no. This
is important before we get into it.
Okay, Erin, you haven't been back. I
somehow I thought you had been. I
thought we'd had you on in the interim.
You haven't been back since the first
time you wasted your time with us in
October of 22.
Oh, really? Okay. What What did we talk
about then?
Probably the same thing. No, no, we
didn't. We got into I remember the
discussion. We got We talked about STTO
and we got into STTO. We got into STA.
We talked about starships. We talked
about design. you I mean you kind of
your ST your ST games that you talked
and your designs and stuff and Okay. And
that was years ago. So we were still
like we were still being introduced to
to Star Trek Adventures at that point.
Like we did No, no, no, no. We were not.
You were Oh, sorry. I was being
introduced. So So I just I just wanted
to put that out there that this
conversation is probably three years
overdue. That's on us. So just Yeah. No,
that's okay. I'm sure there's a lot to
talk about then. Good. No, there's that
that was a that was very important to
bring up. But but so yeah, so by going
to the tech manual, we're jumping three
years ahead. There's a lot of material
we have probably have to go back and
talk about. So that's okay. But how did
you how did you get involved in the in
the tech manual itself? And well, I'm
I'm kind of one of those people that for
Star Trek Adventures that I have a lot
of the science and engineering and
technology stuff just rattling around in
my head anyway. So Jim approached me
pretty early on in the planning stages
saying, "Hey, Aaron, do you want to
write Starship technologies?" and try to
condense down a lot of the information
that you tried to put into uh the utopia
penicia. Uh because I did a lot of stuff
describing technologies there. Um but
you know trying to condense it down
especially towards um a readership that
could be very new to Star Trek or not
really understand what the technology
really was. Um that I think to me that
was a bit of a challenge.
Um and and so I wanted to approach this
as a fun way to introduce people that
that really hadn't found their way into
Star Trek yet. Yeah,
it I I think it works. Like it's
certainly accessible given the massive
amount of tech and tech ideas and the
depth that you all went into. But you
know, you that that this is your stick,
right? I mean, you're you're like one of
the tech gurus when it comes to this
game and others. This is this is your
headsp space. Yeah. I mean, since I was
a little kid, you know, I grew up
watching Star Trek. Even what my
earliest memory, and I've said this in
other interviews, my my absolute first
memory is watching Star Trek the motion
picture, sitting on my mom's lap in a in
a theater. I cuz I I I very vividly
remember the wormhole scene and and her
just like holding me and uh yeah it it's
it's broken up by other you know very
early memories but that's definitely the
earliest one and so I mean I've kind of
like lived in in Star Trek seeing that
kind of hopeful future and really
wanting to understand all this really
cool stuff that I saw on screen. And so
yeah, I I spent far too much time as a
kid uh analyzing bridge stations or or
like you know cross-sections of things
and and then figuring out all these
things. But now you figured out a way
well now like not recently but for some
time you figured out a way to get paid
to do that as an adult. I I have to I
have to say though because you know
what's funny is that it's funny how you
said you're sitting on mom's lap
watching the motion picture. My mom's
the one that introduced me to Trek 2. I
just love to hear that that you know
moms who introduced us to sci-fi and
moms who introduced us to Trek. I just
you know I just love hearing that. That
is just I I that resonates with me in in
an emotional way. So that's just that's
very cool. It's funny because we talked
to we we were talking to someone else
recently and the idea you know we've
talked about lit RPG a lot. Lit is RPG.
RPG is lit. And um the idea the term
came up um coffee table book and the
tech manual is a coffee table book and
it can be set there and used and read
whether you use it as a gaming book or
just a book to read. The other one that
came up in the conversation was Utopia
Planenia
just because of that. And those are my
those are the two that are up on next to
my old man chair in the family room. I
knock on the window and tell the kids to
get off my lawn. Um because I next to
captain's log in the core rule book
because those are my absolute two
favorites. If I have tre on Yeah. If a
starship shows up, I'll go and look in
the book. Oh, thanks. I I appreciate it.
We
we we all put a lot of work into Utopia
Planenicia specifically, but like
I really loved looking at Starship
classes and breaking down like, hey, we
might have only seen them on screen
maybe as a wreck in the Wolf 359 battle,
right? Okay. How how why is this ship
designed this way? Why does it look this
way? What what are what are the purposes
of having these nay cells in this
position? Why is there a difference
between all these different starships
and in how they look? Or why
communicators look this way? Why does
the technology on the bridge in toos
when you pull the panels off, why does
it look all chunky and weird even though
it's supposed to be the mid 23rd
century? Um, all that stuff. Yeah, I I
love just kind of like sinking my teeth
into and coming up with like rational,
reasonable reasonable ideas of why. And
you see that in Utopia Planenicia and
you see that in in the technical manual.
And I I I wish I could have written
more. I I definitely could have. Um I
Oh, you still can. You still can. It may
not make that We wouldn't hear Yeah, we
wouldn't be against that if there's like
a second. Yeah, I I know that. Um I'm
I'm guilty. I'm very guilty of
overwriting. I I I and I'm sure that
that Jim gets upset at me and I'm I
always apologize to Jim whenever I send
uh sections in. I go, you know what, I
know I'm over. Yeah. Um unless he he's
said like right at the beginning, hey,
you know, you really need to get this in
at x amount of words. Um I always have
more and I know it gets cut, but that
means there's just stuff to mind for
later. Right. Well, and doesn't that
help doesn't that help you think through
what you're working on. You know, the
notion of writing helping to guide
thought, almost being experimental. If
you've got to get into a tech and you
write more, aren't you doing a more
robust analysis, a more robust
interrogation?
For me, I think I think it does work for
me. Um, but for your average reader,
probably not. Or like at least for for
like the audience that was intended for
technical manual here as like a a a a
like I said, a lay person that is just
coming into track, you probably don't
need all of that analysis or detail of
of how subspace radiation works or, you
know, how how how an actual like warp
coil functions and generates a subspace
field. Like you don't need that. It's
It's not really necessary. You just need
to I mean, you're not the average
person, Jason. So true. I need that,
too. But, you know,
I I have to ask. I'm going to digress
here because we didn't get a chance to
talk to you while it was on, but Bard
season 3.
Um, the the starships, we saw stuff
coming from STTO became Canon,
Enterprise F, and all that. What was
your reaction? How did how did that, you
know, being a starship guy and
everything for you? What was it like
seeing some of that stuff that was, you
know, book and STTO and everything,
seeing that come to life and become
canon? I love seeing new starships
regardless of where they come from.
Like, hey, it fit it in. Fit it in. I
want to see it.
Um, and all the way through season 3 of
Peicard, I was like with my notebooks, I
take notes on all of all of these shows,
believe it or not. Like I just sit there
and scribble down notes like there's
this many decks on the side of the
saucer. I see this many lifeboat
hatches, you know, that that sort of
thing. And then then you can start
estimating crew numbers and and and
going from there. Um, I love doing that.
And you know, some of the ships were a
little harder to see. than others. But,
you know, you have Titan that was fairly
easy to see. Um, but yeah, I I love
seeing stuff pop off uh a book or or or
come off a computer game and and
suddenly show up. I love that. I
absolutely love it. Yeah. You know, I
was Go ahead. Sorry. No, go ahead, J. Go
ahead. I was just going to say in terms
of like I think of our first
conversation, I think of what we're
talking about now and and the notion
again of writing for the tech manual in
a way that was more accessible for a
broader not necessarily as nerdy
audience as the three of us. So with
Picard season 3 and you've got the
Titan, which I thought I I think is a
gorgeous ship. I I mean I really was
impressed with what they did with that.
And you know online through Star
Trek.com and some of the other stuff uh
other venues there were these
suggestions that you know the the
construction the layout of the Titan
like with the four impulse engines
things like that that that these are all
very intentional these were intentional
design choices as they were right doing
design and production for the for the
series but then in the story itself and
don't get me wrong because I I'm very
biased I think Picard season 3 is some
of the best track that has ever been
created. Recognizing it's it could only
be based on what came before. I think
it's absolutely some of the best that's
been created. And when it came to some
of the tech, like they did a nice job in
a scene or two with Jordy explaining how
the D was brought back. They could have
done more. I could have listened to that
for an hour, but they they they had a a
slick justification. But then they spent
so much time and effort on the design
and conceptualization of the Titan for
Yeah. The NLS and the engines came from
the USS Syracuse, right? Um on on Yeah.
for Enterprise. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay.
So, but they didn't really work it into
the story. They did all right. They did
all of this and then who knows what was
cut just like with the manual. Who knows
what was cut? But so I want to pivot
with that of we look at your work on the
tech manual for STA and I'm curious you
all and we you know we talked with with
Jim and Michael and Al not too long ago
about this but you but they kept
referencing you because of the tech and
and the starships especially you all you
especially wrote this thing as a tech
manual but so that was also like you
said truly readable.
Mhm. Like it's like Picard season 3 when
it came to the Titan they kind of failed
on that. It was left to the imagination.
I'm curious as a as a writer, as a
designer, as a thinker, as a scientist,
like what's that like? You know, like
clearly that was in Plinition Utopia,
but this was different, right? The tech
manual reads very differently.
How do you do that? It's I'm not going
to say it's easy um because it it isn't.
It's just trying to put yourself into a
really different mind space where uh I
have to go Aaron don't don't start
talking about numbers all the time or
don't start talking about you know don't
have a sentence that's half technobabble
even though to me it doesn't really seem
like technobabble because the best Star
Trek technobabble
uh can be broken down into little chunks
that totally make sense you know what's
subspace well we don't really know what
subspace is but we know what how
subspace face functions when you get
into right X Y or Z but anyway don't
have sentences that are half
technobabble be descriptive rather than
um uh using big words you know try try
to describe what it feels like or or or
what it exactly does rather than trying
to explain how it does something
babbling I know I'm not maybe not no
you're not this is exactly what we want
to talk Um, but yeah, it's it's just
being in a very different headsp space
and then making sure uh Jim or you know
Mike or or Al comes back and says,
"Aaron, man, that that still is a little
uh a little arcane. Um, you might need
to change this, this, or this." And I'll
be like, "Oh, you know, you're right.
There is a better way of saying that."
Mhm. Um, and I found the one one of the
ways that helped me with uh and
especially like I I look at chapter 8
because chapter 8's like my little
domain in intact manual was um I in in
Michael's online game we uh we've been
playing for many years and I I did not
start in his game. I kind of came
halfway through and we're we're just
starting to wrap up now. I don't know
how much he's talked about it, but I
ended up jumping in, and I know this is
kind of a digression. Um, I ended up
jumping in playing a very non-standard
character. I I started playing a
Telerite ships counselor who had a
really long long um service in Starfleet
already. So, he was kind of like the old
guy that had seen everything and was
grumpy and whatever. but coming
at role playinging in a Starfleet
setting as this kind of old grumpy guy
that
is approaching things more from a
perspective of yeah, I've seen this
before. Yeah, it it it's weird to you
guys, but how many temporal incidents
have you been in? I've been in 10. You
know, like uh let's just get over it. it
that also helped and applied to this.
And I I'm making I'm making all these
comments because when you look at the
little character blurs that are in
chapter 8, it's coming from a Telerite
engineer who is a little grumpy and
isn't my character that I played, but
he's he's explaining things in a way
that isn't it's more talking down to
himself. Like I'm not going to sit here
and explain to you how a warp drive
works. I don't need to. I just need to
explain to you why it's important.
Yeah. The first thing new engineers get
wrong is and then it just goes on. Yeah.
That's awesome. Did you write all of
those sidebars for the chapter? That's
cool.
So that's and fashioned after your PC in
a in a sense sort of. Yeah. It's only
because I've like really tried to like
dive into Telerite culture and and why
they're argumentative and grumpy and and
Yeah. insulting. Yeah,
that's okay. So, obviously, I mean, you
have written so much in the RPG space
over the years. You know, you've got
your own adventures. I What like this is
I don't know, maybe this is a dumb
question, but like of recent memory, and
this isn't limited by any means to Star
Trek adventures.
Um, what are examples that stand out to
you that really stick in your memory
when it comes to you really had to focus
on the tech? You had to focus on making
that meaningful. I mean, obviously
there's Utopia Plania and then certainly
there's a tech manual, but do other
things stand out? Um, or they were like
maybe particularly challenging or
interesting?
Yeah, I would say one of my first things
that I did writing for an RPG was for
Battletech. Uh it was Eerror Report 2750
and I had to come up with a Well, I
didn't have to, but I thought it would
be really neat to come up with an idea
for an organization that did a ton of
terraforming. Um I don't know how much
you know about the setting, but it I've
got my mech warrior over there. Okay, so
the Star League had uh terraformed a ton
of worlds to be like Earth and they did
it in a very very short amount of time
where normally it would take centuries.
They did it in decades or less. Okay, so
I had to come up with reasonable
explanations of of how the Star League
was able to do this with basically an
unlimited energy budget and money uh and
came up with a department of mega
engineering. So, dome was the
abbreviation. And you know, they they
appear every now and then in some of the
other Battletech books, um, either
through references by me that have
popped up or or other writers, but like
yeah, having to come up with h how do
you how do you get a whole bunch of
water to a planet really fast? Well, you
go through the outer solar system of
whatever star you're at, gathering up or
cloud material, deorbiting it, and
letting it ram into a planet at speed.
Amazing. You know, how how do you spin
up a planet to actually have a day that
isn't, you know, let's say 20 days long
or something like that? You know, how do
you do that? Well, you know, X, Y, and
Z. And Superman kind of figured that out
a while ago, but Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
I mean that's that's how you when you
start flying at close to the speed of
light, your mass increases. And Nice.
Well done. Frame dragging. Frame
dragging. We'll we'll ignore any
deformation of the planet surface. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. For sure. Him tearing away
people from the surface. Like it's uh
not What is that movie? The
Oh, the disaster movie with the moon.
Moonfall. Moonfall. That drove me nuts.
That drove me nuts
because I I have a actually this is one
of my pet peeves. I mean obvious I I I
clearly I love Star Trek have since I
was just memories right at at least
elementary school.
But in so many of the series the
pervasive lack of a basic knowledge of
physics. Oh yeah right. It's so what the
one that stands sticks in my craw more
than any other because most of them I
can work around. Right. Like you said,
we don't really know what subspace is,
but when the
Enterprise rams into the scimitar in
Nexus, great scene. Yeah. But then
they put on their reverse thrusters and
pull out of the scimitar. And I remember
sitting in the theater. I think I went
to see that one alone. My my my relative
newish wife at the time. You and I saw
it three times in the theater. Did we
really? Wow. Yeah. I didn't I don't
remember. We saw No, no. We saw First
Contact three times. We saw Nemesis
twice. Okay. I I did not remember that.
Oh my god. I remember Nemesis. I think
the first time I saw it alone here. I
might be wrong. I think so. Cuz I I
swear to God, I almost shed a tear when
when Data died. It was spoiler alert,
but um I was I remember being in the
theater and under my breath, no, no,
that's not how it works. And I just it's
like, you know, it's a little morally
offensive, but so I I hear you. Yeah.
Yeah. No, I I get you. I I love uh The
Expanse does really well with physics
all the way through it. If you've never
watched that, um another show that I
absolutely adore is uh for all mankind.
See, I knew you were going to I I have
to subscribe to Apple TV so I can watch
that. Um I I absolutely adore it. Um,
yeah, it especially the first season, it
presses every single one of my buttons
for like this is good television, good
writing, um, good attention to detail
cuz the accudas are are like Wait, the
accudas are on for all my time. Yeah,
they're they're on the production stage.
How am I just catching up to this now?
It's been out for so long. I kept
telling you I didn't mention the Auda
thing, but I just kept telling Thank
you. It's It's your fault when my wife
asked me why we have a new subscription.
Thank you. Um, yeah. No, I mean Apple TV
is worth worth it for for All Mankind
and Silo. I mean, that's that's another
great show, but that that's very little
physics. Um Okay. We we we um I we've
done it when um when uh uh Foundation
was on. Foundation. Okay. And so we do
it for like the month, a couple months.
Yeah. Yeah. For All Mankind is worth it.
Um, season one is really stunning for
depictions of Apollo program um, plans
in general for if the space program
really wasn't cut at at the end of the
Apollo program, what could have
happened. Amazing. Um, okay. And it's
it's fun because there's a lot of real
life real life uh historical people that
are portrayed in it. Uh, that does go on
for a while. Uh, I think through season
three there's still a number of
historical people that are still
characters, but Summer Break is not that
far away. The alt I'm an alt history guy
and that's what caught me. That's what
kind of drew me in originally to it.
Joel Kinnman's a good actor, too. He was
good. Yeah. Um, you know, everybody's
really good on that. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
So, going back to to you, though, and
and your work. So, no, no, that this is
great. So, the Battletech dome. That's
so good. other other projects that stand
out like that for you over the years?
Um, I haven't really done a ton of RPG
writing, believe it or not. It's been
Battletech. Yep. Um, I I did a lot of
play testing for um a couple a couple
other games, but not really writing and
then Star Trek Adventures. Yeah. And it
was generally getting into Star Trek
Adventures through uh trying to write my
own Star Trek game. Um and and and
sending all that in. But yeah, I'm I'm
I'm working on other things in the
background that are tangental like they
they've stemmed from a lot of my ideas
and in in science and technology. Um but
those are coming up. Those are coming
up. Nice. Don't know how much we want to
get into that, but anywhere you want to
go. This is your time. Anything that
you're willing to talk about, but
nothing will we want to hear. Okay.
Well, I I have a game that is depending
on when this interview might might be
released. Uh May 19, let's say a couple
months. Okay. Couple months. Y it's
called Saucer Squadron. Uh, it's a
concept that that I came up with and
wrote the rules for and it's
1950s bem movie science fiction, but
uh, it is what if the Roswell crash
really happened and the US started
reverse engineering captured alien
technology and then but you make it
sound like that's not true. I mean, I'm
kidding. And then and then and then the
grays pop up and go, "Oh, you did that,
did you?" Well, I guess we're going to
have to level the playing field so the
US doesn't just kind of take over the
world with our technology and let's give
it to the Soviets, too. Reverse Prime
Directive. Yeah, exactly. And so there's
a setting where basically everyone that
has the nuclear bomb also has flying
saucers.
And every every weird UFO conspiracy
theory might be true.
That's kind of the setting like and and
that many 1950s be movies were made by
the US agencies to try to cover up real
incidents that might have happened to
try to discredit people that might
report them. Hey, you know, you saw you
saw giant uh termites eating through
Hoover Dam. Yeah. No, you just saw them.
You know, if if it weren't if it weren't
2025 in the real world, this would be
hilarious.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Because that
could that because the way things are
going, that could actually happen.
Because if our if our audience were not
our audience, half of them would be
like, I knew it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So, but but like the other the other
stick is is that it is exactly like our
world. like real history has to happen.
So, everyone's trying to like hide the
fact that there really are aliens and
everyone has flying saucers and things
like that. That's clever. Um, but
there's a lot of tech in it and I have
to go into I I want to go into
explaining how like, hey, why are flying
saucers round like that? Why is that the
case? How do they go faster than light?
How do they have these weird abilities
to actually just stop on a dime and
change directions?
uh without like tearing themselves apart
from acceleration and deceleration, you
know, and yet doing it with 1950s tech
in a lot of ways. So you said this is a
couple months away. Yeah. So what and
again within the confines of what's
appropriate and comfortable for us to
ask. Um so what's a couple months away?
Like what what kind of announcement like
are you talking like a Kickstarter or a
books are going to be published and we
can drop our money right away? We're
looking at publishing in a couple
months. Wow. Uh the rules are written um
it's going to be a miniatures game and
then we're actually looking at doing a
couple months after that, let's say
later on this year, um an RPG that is
that is tenatively called
Redacted because you play agents that
are on adventures trying to cover up
alien involvement on Earth in the 1950s.
You finally get to be a man in black,
Red. Yes, but you're not really the men
in black. The men in black are people
that have been seen, but the agents
really don't know who they're working
for.
Um, may we ask about the dice mechanic
of the eventual RPG?
Uh, I'll leave that for another day.
Fair. Yeah, for another day. Absolutely.
Yeah, this sounds fascinating. Yeah,
we're still trying to like tweak Oh,
sure. tweak things in the background.
Now you're partnering with you're
partnering with person or people to to
with yellow with yellow. Oh, cool. With
group with the group working. Very good.
Nice. Okay. Because I've worked I've
worked with Al on on some of his his
things like Sens. Right. Right. Yep.
Yeah. Um Yeah. So I mean I have done
tech for Sensience. I did a lot of the
background for like the star system that
it takes place in. Okay. Yeah. Yeah.
Wanted to make it somewhat realistic.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I 667 is the star
system. Yeah. I apparently have to read
my Kickstarter emails more carefully.
Yes, you do. Yes, I do. Yeah. Yes, you
do. Look, they come in the morning. I'm
usually making coffee for Amy, tea for
for Mera, and I'm like, "Oh, update for
Mel." And I skim it to find out, are
there any dates or anything, whatever.
Then I'm like, "Okay, good." But
apparently I need to be more Oh, you got
to read it because because he's
mentioned Aaron and I think Erin, you've
posted some you've he's g E A E A E A E
A E A E A E A E A E A E A you've given
some stuff to Al to post within some of
the updates. Oh yeah, I seriously have
to start paying attention. I have been a
lot of the background like history, the
deep history. Yeah. Uh the star system
that they're in. Neat. Um and I did I
there's going to be an adventure
published nice uh for sentience by me as
well that's called Isotopes.
Yeah,
I know you've been wanting to you you
and I Jason and I have been talking like
like Android um you know kind of the
cyber punky type of stuff and Sensience
is that I think Sat Sensience is going
to be the one I think that that
scratches that itch. Yeah, I'm really
looking forward to that. Yeah, it's an
interesting system that deals with
emotions a lot that you're like using
emotions as part of your dice roll. Um,
and at least the adventure that I wrote,
I I like kind of challenging ideas or or
getting a big idea and then like
challenging the concept of characters.
Uh, that sounds vague until I say like
the adventure that I wrote is here are
all these androids. You you
are you're self-aware. You're sensient.
Yep. You have life in your own way. Mhm.
But it's not biological life. The
biggest difference is is that you're in
really rugged bodies and technically you
could buy with through energy credits
and all of that a backup for yourself.
But what happens when it's very possible
you could end yourself through means in
which you could not be recovered? Yep.
Your mind would just be gone. And that's
that's the adventure. like how do you
deal with that kind of uncertainty and
fear and terror in the same way that
humans likely had to deal with the same
situation, right?
It feels like Yellow is Yellow Hand is
another one of those companies that's
just going to kind of kind of just
blossom blossom into that new space.
Yeah. Yeah. Just with the way gaming the
way gaming is is blossoming with now
with with Zoom. I have to ask just more,
this is kind of a a far-left field
question. It's something that Jason and
I were talking about in conjunction with
our our fourth anniversary show. Have
you seen or experienced or have any
thoughts on how like, you know, because
we're talking about Sensience, um how AI
has kind of played into the RPG world or
how it's kind of played into what you've
experienced in writing or anything like
that? Um, I've had mixed experiences
with it. Um, I've seen people use it for
um really quick art or art ideas to to
go from. Yeah. Um, and I think that's
acceptable on like a personal level,
like as a player, but I also see that
being incredibly destructive for artists
in the long run, right? Um, and and it's
the same thing with with writing. Like,
I can see it as a tool. We all have our
normal word programs that that
automatically say, "Hey, look, you
screwed up grammar." That that's I mean
very very very limited AI in in a way.
But then there's the bad like, "Hey,
write me a story." And we've all run
across television shows where we're
like, "Wow, that was written by AI." I
guarantee you we've all like watched an
episode of something in general and
went, "Oh, that is really badly
written." What? What?
AI. And that's that's the challenge.
Like you can you can use it as a
tool, you can misuse it as a tool just
like any tool around. That's right.
That's right. Which is something you
actually address a number of times, you
and the others in the tech manual. Mhm.
I mean, I noticed that there were
numerous instances where it's this is
good, this is bad. It's about the
person, not the tech. Yes. And I mean
that's that's that is literally true
with any tool. A hammer can pound a nail
or it can kill. Yeah. And any piece of
technology is that way. And at least in
Star Trek when you have technology that
can do these amazing wondrous things,
they do it through bending spaceime or
or something just like deconstructing
matter and reconstructing it. How
horrific can all of that be to the human
body when not properly controlled or
slightly out of alignment? Yeah. Um and
and yeah, all all of my like little
complications. Some of them are pretty
pretty mundane, you know, like oh, you
know, there's a static charge on the
walls or something like that. But then
it can be, hey, the gravity field uh you
know, the the the grav plating
malfunctions and suddenly there's 20 G's
in the corridor. you know, not not
exactly conducive to to life as we know
it. Yep. Um but hey, at least in normal
usage, it allows you to walk around the
ship and not get like bone loss.
Yeah. So, so let me ask a question. This
is a little out there, but um so
obviously like with Star Trek
Adventures, like I mean we we know we
know well I mean Jim Johnson always has
like a half dozen projects in the
pipeline. I mean, I we we know there's
always stuff being worked on and and
you know, certainly I'm aware of one or
two of those things coming up. Staying
away from all of that, staying away from
any other line. If if there were no word
limits and and and someone, you know,
whether it was Jim or someone from
another game, doesn't matter. If if if a
if a project manager came to you and
said, "Okay, Aaron, what do you want to
write and how do you want to do it?"
What would scratch that itch? Like if if
if no one was going to limit your words,
if no one was going to say, you know,
that's probably too geeky or too broad
or whatever for our audience if you just
had total total
cartlunch, where would you go?
I mean, I'd love doing space related
anything with that because you can deep
dive spaceships, star uh star systems,
alien cultures. You can just deep dive
it and go, "Okay, awesome. I I really
want to go into this." Yeah.
Um, I mean, I would I would
probably w without exaggeration, I could
probably fill a 70,000word book with
Telerite culture right now, just from
everything that I've had to write and
develop for the the the the character
that I played or or doing background for
Star Trek Adventures. Easily could do
something like that. And Way of the
Clans for the old uh lug Star Trek game.
Yeah. Yeah. Easily could do that. Um
that would be fun because I could I
could have a lot of fun just being
grumpy for a little bit and argument.
Yeah, I hear that. But yeah, I mean just
you detailing out beautiful settings. I
love
that. And you know, starships are a
setting in Star Trek and that's why I I
love it. I love I I've ships are people
to me again like they're characters.
Yep. I remember this. I remember this
talking about this briefly and I came
away that when we talked about this the
first time and we like we could do this
again because I remember remember we
came out of this conversation. We both
It was such a It was It was not a huge
chunk of our convo, but it was such a
profound piece of the convo that we both
I don't think we recorded the intro
outro that same day. We had to That was
the start of us not doing it the same
day because we needed time to like
digest the conversation because it was
like so deep for us. Well, and the
kicker because I I checked this while I
checked this earlier while we were
talking. So the first time we talked
about this stuff with you Aaron. So we
we had this crash course and it was kind
of blown our minds in a wonderful way.
And then about a month and a half later
Thomas [ __ ] was on talking about and
this was right this was before like he
was this was when he was just like
assistant art director right and was had
the time to waste with us like before
like things just exploded with his with
everything with him and STTO. I mean,
it's so amazing. But like I remember him
talking about the Ross class and it was
I know I know you love it but and I
might be wrong but I think it's the Ross
class and and I remember our chat with
you like Brian was saying was so fresh
in mind. So when he was talking about it
from an artistic standpoint and you know
he I mean you you probably know and we
don't but he like he was geeking out
about like his mental machinations to
justify the art and the look and it was
like we just talked to Aaron about this
but from the other angle. Mhm. It was
super cool and and and you guys are
doing that I think like with Utopia
Planicia I honestly don't know how you
guys did that. It is just a sheer thing
of beauty. And then again with with the
tech manual, right? But it's super
readable and it's also I think deep like
you're talking about tech babble, but
but there's a whole page in there
dedicated to technobabble, right? And
how to use it. It's like, well, that's
that's got to be a tough balance to
find. Yeah, it is. Again, you just have
to like get yourself into the proper
mind space where Yeah. Technobabble is
bad when it's not understandable. Sure.
Right. Um there's a really funny video
online of it. It It's fairly famous of
like uh I think it's a car manufacturer
and they have like this fake piece of
equipment and it's the encabulator or
something like that. The retro
encabulator. I don't know this. Um, look
it look it up. It's amazing. Um, but the
thing is is that the entire video is
basically this guy giving
technobabble and it is total nonsense.
But now and then like maybe let's say
10% of the words you're like, "Oh no, I
actually get what he's trying to say."
So in my opinion, while that is really
funny to me, it isn't good technobabel.
Good Technobabel is short and
understandable. You know what like you
know what a self-sealing stem bolt is
even though if you never see it being
used or not exactly what you you don't
really know what it is. You know it
self-seals. That means it must like when
you put it into something it connects
automatically. And a stem bolt. Well,
it's a bolt. All right. And that a stem,
you know, it's got a long piece. Okay. I
kind of see in my mind exactly what it
does and what it's supposed to do. Yep.
There. Boom. Good technique. And you
don't even need to know what it looks
like, right? Yeah. Or or or bionural gel
packs. Yep. Oh, perfect. Yes. Don't even
need to see it, right? Like, but it's a
neural gel and it's going to link into
the computer with the way they're
talking about it. It's all you need to
know. You never even need to see it. It
just there's goo in the computer. I was
sitting I was watching Voyager a month
or two ago with my 17-year-old daughter
and and and there was something about
you know damage to one of the packs or
the panels or something and I'm like you
know Voyager was unique because it was
the first Starfleet ship with bionurogel
packs. She was like what's that and it
was to your point like in a sentence
I could explain it and it made sense
because all the pieces are there in the
in the babble. Exactly. Exactly. And
it's the same like the bas ram scoops.
Like that's a real piece of technology.
It's a real thing. So you you is it even
technobabble trying to describe the fact
that it uses magnetic fields to scoop up
ionized hydrogen from interstellar
space. None of that is I mean it is
technobabble, but all of that is real,
right? So boom. Um I I don't know. As
long as it's explainable, it's good
technobabo, right?
And having it
understandable means doing it in little
bite-sized chunks. Yeah. Let me ask you
then on what your thought is. You have
seen Prodigy. Yes. Yeah. Okay. What do
you think about the Protoar drive?
Okay. I have I I know you guys address
it, but what do you think? I I like it.
It's just a different form of energy
generation, right? Really. And you know
what? It It's probably just reinforced
warp coils that allow a a a stronger
warp field like a slipstream. That's how
I would explain it without Yeah. Yeah.
Without doing any like just watching the
show if I was like a lay person. Okay.
It's just like warp drive, but it has a
a a star compressed down into its into
its core. Right. Oh yeah. Now, if I
wanted to be like the the semi- lay
person, I'm a a sort of Star Trek fan.
Oh, wait. It it has a it has a protoar
in it. So, it's compressed. So, is it
like the the Romulan Singularity Drive
and it's getting all its power like
that? It's just not as big because a
singularity theoretically would be a
lot, you know, more massive. But maybe
maybe it's something like that. I don't
know. But yeah, I'm I'm okay with it. I
think it it's fine. I I really liked
Prodigy. Yeah. I I I didn't expect to at
all and by the end uh honestly
especially like Braden talk about this
so many times the whole the Will Weeden
arc I just the whole thing I absolutely
loved in fact on the way home today I
was thinking about space time and
thought and how to your point
like a I mean philosophically that that
wasn't unique like this has been and is
currently akin to right you know
information and whatnot but and quantum
theory and what fine but like I was
thinking about that thinking you know
man that that's salient like you could
actually get into that just from that
one scene and really riff in real life
or in game and and it would be pretty
safe play like like conceptually. Mhm.
Yeah. I'm with you. I'm with you. No, I
I really liked Prodigy. Obviously, I'm
I'm I'm partial to the fact that it it
shows other founding members of the
Federation and like larger roles. So,
you have Telerites and Andorans. I was
very happy with that. And, you know, Pog
obviously made me made me uh laugh quite
often, especially when he went out onto
the class M planet in a space suit
because you don't know. How do you know
it's
safe? That just that just brought joy to
me. Um I don't know.
That's fair. Everyone else, you're dumb.
Yeah, that's fair. Yeah. Yeah. I love
that. Anyway, yeah, this percussive
maintenance. Yeah, we've all been there.
Yeah.
Anything else that you have that um
you're working on besides the the
miniatures RPG thing that you'd be
willing to talk about? Uh I mean,
there's other Star Trek projects that
are going to be coming out that that
I've had a hand in. Yeah. But I I can't
really talk about them. No, no. There
there is stuff there's there's stuff
that will be coming out. Uh, you know,
Star Trek Adventures is still around.
That should be enough to be able to say
that there that there is things coming.
And I I've I've had a hand in everything
except one book. Okay. That I was going
to I was going to ask that because it's
been my impression based on like what we
see online, what Jim has said, what I've
seen on some emails. It really looks
like you have been involved in just
about everything SDA for quite some
time. Since the beginning. Yeah. Since
the beginning. Oh, it is since the
beginning. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. out. I was
I I was like right there uh before while
the core book was being um put together
and the conceptual stuff for the fans.
Yeah, that's right. That's incredible.
Just that that's got to feel just so
cool. It it is it's it's a real honor
and it's amazing to have been able to
work with such an amazing team. Yeah,
but if I would have gone back and told
like my, you know, 10-year-old self,
hey, you're going to be doing Star Trek
role playing game stuff and and writing
and working with all these people that
have worked on the show, you know, I' I'
I'd be jumping around with, you know,
10-year-old self would be, "Oh my god, I
can't believe it." Much like 50-year-old
self, to be honest. Yeah. Basically,
yeah. Hey. Hey. Every day I get an email
uh from from Jim about about something,
you know, over these many years. It has
been like, man, I I I really am lucky.
Yeah. I'm really lucky to be doing this.
So cool. But you're also really good at
what you do. I I don't know. I I I'll
say I have like, you know, imposttor
syndrome with it. I I I try my best.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, your best is pretty
darn good. Yeah. as long as people like
it and uh are getting some some sort of
joy out of it, I I think I I'm
succeeding in some way, shape, or form.
Clearly, I mean, you look at you look at
how many products you've been involved
with. You look at the products you're
you are or what's the future that you
are or will be involved with as they
release like I mean we know people are
people are buying Star Trek Adventures.
We we you know it is for the time being
hopefully for a long time being a really
successful line. People are willing to
put good money into that like other game
systems and that that that's because of
what you're all doing and the thirst for
it. Mhm. There there is a desire for a
positive hopeful future. That's right.
Absolutely. At the table, not just on
the screen. Yeah. I'm Yeah. Everywhere.
and and any any place that you can find
that hope I it's even in good times
finding hope somewhere that you can
smile at each other across the table or
you know regardless of what that table
is when you can smile at each other and
go yeah you know what we're doing
something good here um I tend to smile
before a TPK but that's my but that's
another conversation yeah yeah yeah but
I mean like that that hope it really
does bring a positive energy and then
and when when you walk away from the
table saying, "Yeah, I had this great
time telling this amazing story where we
saved this group of people or we we had
this philosophical debate about the the
the rights or wrong about interfering in
this society and trying to change
something about it or you know anything
like Star Trek's about thought. It's
about thought experiments." Yes. Yes.
Yes. 100%. When it's when it's positive,
when it when you bring that positivity
out of it, that's what matters. I I
don't know. That's always gotten me
about Star Trek. I love people just
being able to debate a a a problem
and still walk away even if they have a
disagreement, just saying, "Okay, well,
we did what we could and we did what was
right." This is actually much of what
hooked me about Prodigy against my
expectation. Exactly what you just said.
All the characters were in a pretty dark
place and they they kind of built their
way out. They build momentum.
Be cognizant of your time, but I wanna
not really more of a question, just more
of a a comment because you had mentioned
early on that you had you obviously had
written a lot, Jim, and and Jim had
mentioned this when we talked about the
tech manual that they had to do a lot of
pairing down of material. There's a lot
of material that didn't make it. um as
well. Don't forget those of us out there
that you know if that material is out
there. I know it it can be put to good
use perhaps in future books or whatever
the case may be. But um I know they use
a blog. Um I know the blog is out there.
They can put the stuff out there. Uh
don't let that stuff
languish. Um I know there's I know that
that's gold for those of us inquiring
readers players want to know. Yeah.
Yeah. And I guarantee you that Jim has a
folder from me with hundreds of
thousands of words. I think I think Jim
has actually said as much to us before.
That's a hard one though, too, because
once you've submitted that material,
it's no longer yours. It's not
technically even his. And so, it's a
matter of of just waiting for it to see
daylight in the appropriate project.
Yes. Yes. Absolutely. Yeah. I can't I
can't put it out there.
You can't just willy-nilly do that. It
has to be in a product. Yeah. Yeah. I
wish I could, but yeah. Well, let me ask
in how I think. So, especially like with
the Telerite ideas. So, and recognizing
like publication license. I I know those
are all things, but if if if that could
be addressed, would you ever consider
someday, maybe not now, but someday,
just writing this stuff without the
notion of it going for a game? But like
if if if um you know, if if CBS of
Paramount said, "Yeah, go ahead. We've
got our permission." Would would you
would you ever consider putting stuff
like that into a book? Maybe it's a
novel. Maybe it's right narrative
fiction. Whatever. I guess that's But
you know what I mean. Like like a
history of the future. Like if you have
that much, it would be a different
animal. But then you could just riff and
develop it. Yeah. I mean, I wouldn't
have a problem with that. I'd have to
see what my uh you know, what time I
have to work on whatever project. You
know, there's there's paying projects
and there's non-paying project. Well,
I'm assuming they would pay you for
this. I mean, okay. Absolutely. you know
that then
yeah pay if there's if there's like yeah
payment involved sure absolutely it's
it's at the top because I mean oh yeah I
mean would I love to like add to a very
un unutilized unexplored part of tlor
and just really deep dive it absolutely
and you know
I could I could with at least the
teleres I could probably with the
endorans a bit too um just not as much.
Uh Mhm. there's already been books on
them anyway. It's just that the
Telerites haven't really been widely
ignored. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I'm
still I'm still pining that that's a bit
of a strong word, but I'm holding out
for the Remember the Simon and
Schustster Worlds of the Federation.
Yes. ignore
right and we've talked about this with
the others but but that's still like
near the top of my list that someday I
hope there is something equivalent to
that for STA where it's because like
like what you're talking about like
getting into the weeds where whether it
was like whether it was a source book
whether it was like I would almost
prefer like a sort of traveler's guide
that even would have the format of like
the GM and players handbooks right where
it literally was. I mean, I would read
that sucker front to back. We tried
again and again and again. Yeah. Yeah.
We tried to do a little bit of that with
the Shackleton Expanse guide. Yeah. Um
because I mean, we went in I went in and
actually did a lot of like planet
details, just like the random planets or
like how the Shackleton expands, what
stellar phenomenon there were. Here's
here's how it looks. And it's more of a
a travel guideish sort of approach to
it. Yeah. Back in the day, Kelly
Fitzpatrick shared her excitement about
getting to invent a species. Oh, yeah.
Right. A really cool species. Yeah.
Yeah. I would love I mean I probably a
lot of us would love some type of book
on that cuz you guys would just go nuts
with it, I think. Yeah. And I mean just
look at the Shackle and Expanse guide,
the the guide book, the campaign book.
There's that's a huge book and that's
just it is a huge book from our minds,
right? like from all of our minds from
the team and you could just take that
book and play for years. Yeah.
Games. That's like one of the best
sandbox books I've ever seen for a game
just because of to what you said and I
don't I don't know if it's if if people
realize how much like you said that was
you
know this is not the best way of putting
it. So, I apologize, but invented, you
know. No. Yeah. You know, that's really
what it was. And and the detail that
came out of it and like you said, it's a
traveler's guide. That's almost a coffee
table book unto itself. Um, and when
I've when we did some when we did some
playing around with captain's log in the
past and things like that, I had
referenced that
um just because of how it was written
from a you know, just from a design
perspective, you know, it's just one of
those it's just one of those books and
that book is, you know, prime example
where, you know, we're now in second
edition. the material. This is where
first edition books can still be used in
second edition very easily. Shackleton
is a prime example of when you you talk
about Shackleton like offline all the
time. All the time. I love that book and
but I'm I'm also kind of a fan of I love
large tones, you know, I like to look at
a large tone book and that is one of
those books where um you know you know
Jason and I are big fans of not
necessarily when we play in the STA
universe, we don't like to mess with
with canon. Yeah. Um and we don't like
to necessarily to the point that it
holds back my creativity because it's
like I'm not breaking anything. We don't
like to break We don't like to break and
mess with canon. just our own personal
preference. So, so you know, being able
to work in the work in Shackleton that
allows so smart about it. Yeah. Yeah. I
I don't have to necessarily completely
stretch my own relatively limited
creative abilities. Um, you guys have
given me a sandbox that I can use that I
can branch off of. And I think that what
what works between first edition and
second edition and why Shackleton still
can apply into second edition is so much
of what we write isn't necessarily
uh really hard into the rules. Like it's
not like there are specific numbers and
very specific dice rolls and very
specific trait combinations that need to
be used with everything that is written.
Um, even in in in Utopia Plenicia, the
starships there, it's mostly story that
I wrote. I wrote them like here's a
story and then here's a character. I
actually I I read through lots and lots
of the backstories of the ships. I
didn't even pay attention to the stats
when I got it because of just what you
said because it was all there. Yeah.
Yeah. It that was Yeah, that's
fascinating to me. We don't need to
worry about first or second edition with
that. No, that's right. That's why
that's why that one that one especially
is a is what I call a coffee table book.
You could put that out on the table and
if you're if you're watching the TV
series if you're wa wa wa wa wa wa wa wa
wa wa even if you're watching like DS9
where you're not necessarily seeing tons
of starships on any given basis, you can
pull up and just read the stories of
these these starship classes. Well, in
the beta quadrant, I mean, come on,
we've got almost 60 years and the beta
quadrant is essentially ignored. Even
even during the Dominion War, it was all
about, you know, the Dominion's going to
take over the the Alpha Quadrant. And
it's like, you guys need to pay
attention to your own borders. This is
so much bigger than this. Yeah. The beta
is the redheaded stepchild,
unfortunately, of the quadrants, really.
Even the, you know, the, you know, the
gamma and the delta so far away, but
they're more impressive than the poor
poor old beta quadrant. So, well,
Federation splits between it. So, yeah.
Yep. Yep. Erin, you know, we thank you
so much for for taking the time with us.
We promise, well, maybe this maybe this
is a promise that you may not want us to
keep, but we promise that we we will
have you
on sooner than three years between this
and the next. Hopefully. I mean,
hopefully more like in the next few
months or couple months whenever um
whenever your games start to drop. We
would love to have you on just to talk
about those if you like them. I mean,
don't don't don't have me on if you
don't, you know, really want to talk
about them. That's for sure. I mean, you
had us at Flying Saucers and it's good.
Oh, yeah. Flying saucers, too. The
science behind the Flying Saucers.
Absolutely. We got to talk about that.
Oh, sure. Yes. I When you were talking
about that, what I had in the back of my
mind is Flight of the Flight of the
Navigator. No, not Mars Attacks,
but Flight of the Navigator. you know
how it would it would you know the the
morphing of the ship. I don't know if
Jason you ever watched that but I'm not
going to right now. Yeah, good movie. So
go back and look at it later. It's a
Disney movie but and you know it's got
like the the cutesy kind of kids Disney
movie stuff that's in it as well. But
they actually even deal with um uh twin
paradox kind of stuff like relativistic
oh uh time differentials like hey kid
goes off in a in a spaceship traveling
at near the speed of light and then
comes back and it's only been like a few
weeks to him but it's been many years on
Earth years and now his little brother
is his big brother and so next time
we've got to talk about interstellar
too. Yeah,
we can. Yeah. No, but yeah, we we would
very much if you got the time, we would
very much like to have you back to talk
about the new game. Sure. That that
would be Yeah. When you're ready, when
you give us give us the word when you
want to talk more about the miniatures
and everything invitation. Yeah. And
we'd love to we'd love to have you on to
talk through it more. Yeah, we will be
watching for that, too. Sure. Sounds
good. Thanks, Aaron. Thank you for
having me. I appreciate it.
[Music]
It's always good to have returning
guests and and for Aaron again, we said
it before, it was way overdue and having
you along. So, thank you again for
joining
[Applause]
us. Ah, yes, the sound of the
loons. That tells us it's time to go to
the Lon Cafe. Why not? Sounds courtesy
of Jason Kaufman recorded up on the
Gunfl Trail on the edge of the Boundary
Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. I I we'll
be using that obviously. That is like
better than any sound we've been able to
find online in all honesty. That is
really well done. Thank you. I that one
was taken actually from a cabin deck
last summer. Was it in the evening?
Nope. No.
Uh I think it was a morning. So, was it
a morning? I tend to go out with coffee.
I used to do it with Amy's dad. Uh, and
I'll spend an hour or two out there
having coffee, thinking, looking,
listening, eventually reading. And so,
those are the evenings and mornings are
the best time. It's very difficult for
us to like be sitting there not talking
about something. But if I had heard
that, you and I would be sitting there
not talking. And that's and and and this
is this is a little silly and I
shouldn't even say it while we're on
air, but the loon calls are an almost
sacred thing for me at this point. So I
just think that's what I'm saying is
that would be an occasion where if that
was what I would be hearing, we would be
sitting there not talking and I think
anyone who know anyone who would be
around us would be shocked by that.
Okay. So while you're busy not talking,
what's on your desk? Yeah. Um, you know,
I have I have been in um for the past
two weeks, I'm going to admit it, I've
been in a bit of an RPG rut. Um, I
really
haven't opened an RPG book.
Um, there's been um
some, you know, I'm a fan of cycling. I
like watching cycling as a sport. You
and I know this. We watch, we talk about
the tour. Mhm. Yep. When it comes on,
the tour to France that comes on in July
every year. Um but um I've been able to
get some of the other races that are
going on over in Europe. And so I've
been kind of watching, not like watching
it on TV, but um keeping up with some of
the news and all that and doing some
other project stuff related to writing.
And um I just
haven't opened up my writing related to
it for the well, not two weeks, but for
like probably the past week and a half.
Yeah. And as I sit here tonight,
um, I'm I'm working on a I'm I'm working
on a kind of like a productivity
project. I just it's too boring to
discuss here, but ultimately I've
already lost interest. Yeah, I know.
Ultimately for me, I just it it I've
been I've been doing some kind of dice
I've been doing some dice rolling, but
it's related to like my sports game.
Yeah. Solo play stuff. Um, and I don't
know what it is. I just at the moment I
don't know if it's because it's spring
out and the seasons change and you you
know because you've had the weather too.
Y um we've had some nice weather out
here.
Um yeah, as we are recording in very
very late April, spring is in full swing
here. Yeah, we've I mean it was 80
degrees here yesterday. Oh wow. So I
literally and you
know lately lately because I've had some
weight loss it I just don't wear shorts.
I'm I'm like cold. Yep. I've never been
a shorts person. Temper. You know
temperature for me you know what could
what could keep me warm temperature
wise. Totally different now. Totally
different. Yeah. But yesterday I was
able to actually put a pair of shorts on
and not feel like I was going to freeze
to death. Biking shorts. No. Thank you.
No. still have not attempted those in
the new slimmer look. I'm just fearful
of what that might look like. As are we.
So, yes. And I and I'm and you can be
rest assured that when I try them on,
they will be in the security of a of a
bathroom fully locked or not with the
lights turned off. Yes. Exactly. So, so
now that now that we have assured
everyone that they should have nothing
to fear, what's been on your desk? What?
So, um it's actually what's been on my
screen. What's been on my TV? So, to
think about that, but since we recorded
with Aaron not long ago, yes. Uh, you
and I don't know what finally clicked
for me, but but that chat with you and
Aaron finally convinced me to give For
All Mankind a try.
And also, uh, Apple TV Plus is having,
um, a 3.99 per month deal for three
months. Yes, it's okay. Perfect time for
you to binge, right? So, um I thought
I'm going to give it a shot. Worst
cases, I'm out four bucks. I watched the
first episode and yes, everybody, I know
I'm coming to this almost 6 years late.
I know. Uh cuz it's it debuted in 2019,
believe it or not. But this is alt
history and that's traditionally not an
area that's interesting at all. But but
I started watching and then one of your
comments was think of it like
sci-fi and that really clicked for me.
So thank you for that. So I I got hooked
on the first episode which really
surprised me. It's really good material
but I didn't I thought it would take
maybe two to three episodes before it
would hook you. I did too. So I am
almost through season one.
Wow. Um I I've been I haven't been able
to watch daily, but I like every few
days I get one in and over the weekend I
got one or two in. It's you know I'm
only eight episodes in. There are 40 so
far. Uh the plan well the plan is to be
done within my three-month trial uh with
Apple TV Plus. But, um, as this episode
drops,
uh, I will have finished spring
semester, had, uh, a handful, not even a
week off, and summer term will have
started up, but I only have one class
this summer. So, my plan, I actually
hadn't planned to start it until like
after this drops, but my plan is to use
my time when I'm home. home. Dina will
be home from college, but use my time
when I have a lot of time at home,
relatively unencumbered. And I just I
just want to slowly between now and what
is it? May June. Between now and like
June,
if if it lasts through the through the
summer, I don't care. I'll pay. But my
plan is over the course of the summer, I
want to watch all four seasons. So, I
basically have three more seasons. And I
am like I go to bed and I think about
it. I am it's so well and I don't even
like human interest stories but because
it's really telling you stories about
what are the lives of these people like
in this world with these roles. Um I
like I'm down the rabbit hole so hard on
this I haven't even started watching
andor season 2 yet.
Okay. Now that you haven't told me that
you haven't told me that. Well, we it's
been a busy couple days. Yeah, it's been
a busy day. But but that really
surprises. But then again, if you're
it's you know, you're not necessarily a
person that's going to give up time for
tons of shows. No, no. To have two at
the same time is is pretty rare these
days for me. But like this coming
weekend, my plan my plan is to stay on
pace. So, this coming weekend, my plan
is to to watch Andor the First Batch uh
over the weekend. What I always find
what I still find a bit funny is that I
am more reticent to pick up television
shows than you.
Um the reasoning not so much. It's just
I am more um hesitant on television
shows. Um, and maybe it's maybe it's
mostly Star Wars stuff. Um, although you
you know, my son who's got a very
similar taste and and critique of Star
Wars that I have has given me um
good reviews of Andor. So, I'm just
still of I've said it once. I've said it
multiple times and I'll say it again.
I want new history. I I'm tired of us
telling a story with that with in these
same interiors. The Andor was so well
done. I know. Otherwise, I am I am with
you all. Like I really want the Ray
trilogy or whatever to come out to move
the story forward. Even I know there I
know there what is the new movie that
Ryan Gosling Starfighter
I'm reserving. Yes. Star Wars Starf
Fighter. I'm reserving judgment. I know.
But it's coming out after episode 9. Do
we know the story? Yeah, they said it's
it's coming. It's people correct me if
I'm wrong, but I remember being told
it's after episode 9. So, I am going to
go and see it because it's coming out.
It's going to be new timeline.
So, I'm going to give it the benefit of
the doubt because that's what I've been
asking for. Yes. and he did okay for me
in
um in Bladeunner in Bladeunner. I've
still not seen Bladeunner 2049. I don't
know how that's possible
given how much I love the original. Mine
you got to put that on your on your on
your sticky note for the future. I can I
got two shows to watch right now it's
already flowing over. Yeah. And that's
not one you need to really like
go bending over backwards for in all
honesty. Um you're a big fan of the
original. The 2049's fine, but it's it's
not going to,
you know. Yeah. So, but so yeah. So, and
and I bring that up because I bring up
For All Mankind because to me it's so
relevant to RPGs, right? And like like
it just makes me want to play in a next
century world, a next century solar
system. Like bring me Pioneer from from
Mongoose. Bring me bring me some version
of Welcome to Moonbase from Ben Bova,
right? Like that is the that is the
uh that is a
setting on in just in within the past
six months. Maybe we should have we
should have him back and have him
talking about cuz they've been a lot of
stuff. I keep watching though. No
updates on No update on that. And that's
okay because when there isn't that
traditionally means hopefully means
something going on. Yeah, I hope so. And
and they've been doing a lot of content
updates and stuff on Traveler and
everything and even on paranoia. Oh,
speaking of which, I texted you a couple
things this morning. Are you I was
surprised you didn't respond though. You
You're even busier right now in the
office than I am. Oh. Um the Shannon
Apple. Yeah. Uh uh his new book. No, no,
no. This is the one that's just coming
out. This is his history of the Traveler
RPG. Brad's checking his texts right
now. Box him. No, no, no, no, no. This
is already out. This is just a reprint.
I think
I Oh, I thought I thought this was maybe
I think this is a I think I don't think
do some research. I don't think so cuz
I've read about I'm sure that they've
been talking about him writing this uh
cuz this was like the passion project
cuz this goes right up to today. I think
maybe it's an update of it and because
there's a Humble Bundle deal where the
PDF is $7.99 instead of 30
cuz the printed is 50 and it looks like
a coffee table book. Yeah, I've got
Could be fun to read. Well, before you
You know what? I'll I'll look this up
because I think I have read this. Check
it out. Maybe maybe I'm wrong. It's just
a reprint. I just I I still That's one
of those where we are eventually going
to play travel. Yeah, we will. I'll tell
you this summer. Maybe maybe this summer
we'll dabble. I still have it on my SK.
I still have that schedule. I still want
to do I, you know, when I when I started
getting using AI with with dice
mechanics and it and I had it talking
about the different dice mechanics, the
Gersps mechanics still. I've got an I've
got an untouched GERP source book over
there on the shelf waiting for you.
Don't you get rid of that book. We're
I'm not. You told me we're going to use
it. We're going to use it. And you have
the shelf space now, so that can't be an
excuse either. I have a plethora of
glorious shelf space now. Yes. And you
still you still have midnight, right?
Yep. Okay, good. I still think we should
try Midnight.
That would be that would be fun and dark
to play in. I think that would be an
interesting one if we ever like It's
great lit. Yeah, maybe even if we all
get together, maybe Brian would join us
for Yeah, cuz they've released quite a
bit for it late. I think that there are
I have the DM screen for it and there
are um what a number of campaign guides
or s not source campaign guides maybe.
there there's stuff that's recently come
out for it. So, it's an active line. I
don't know if I'm if I'm up todate on
their mailing list. I don't get much. I
I don't know how much I've seen on email
and how much I Is that FFG or is that
Edge? Edge. And I don't know how I most
of Edge I see on social media. They they
post updates. Yeah. Regularly on social
media. Okay. Yeah. We need to we need to
find I know that nobody from Edge
listens to us, but if someone does and
knows someone from Edge, we so badly
want to have you on and and just to talk
about what it's like working with some
of the Edge Yeah. IP, it's just there's
so much good stuff there and we just we
and it has such history, too. Yeah. And
for me, it's local. I mean, Edge, not so
much. Just But for me, I mean, like I
can like I was able to drive up to FFG
like it's 50 it was 50 minutes from the
house, right? I can now I can still get
up to Game Center. Um, so well with that
wishful thinking to be continued. In the
meantime, you all know the deal. Be
well, stay well. We'll see you in a
couple of weeks.
[Music]
