[Music]
Welcome to Dyson Mind, a podcast hosted
by Brad Brown and Jason Kaufman to
explore the intersection of life, games,
science, science, music, philosophy, and
creativity through interviews with
leading creatives. All are welcome in
this
[Music]
space. So, couple weeks back, having a
bad day, going to have a root canal
done. um and literally go in and thought
I was going to have the root canal and
they think it's just going to be a
consult for the root canal. So, um I'm
there saying, "No, no, no. I'm not going
to leave until this is actually done
because I'm in immense amount of pain."
Yeah. So, they're like, "Yeah, okay.
We'll come back in two hours." So, I go
back to my car and I get a text from you
um that that literally says that
literally says Star Trek technical
manual and it didn't it or technical
manual. It didn't place with me. So, and
I thought you were like you had because
you are doing your remodel in your
basement. Yeah. You you had packed up
your books. I know the remodel wasn't
done, but I thought that you had gone
into one of your boxes and had were
reminiscing in one of the That's funny.
Well, either the TNG or the DS9, one of
the manuals had had bubbled up in the
box initially. So, that was my first
like inclination. Yeah. And then when I
think I responded back with question
mark or or something and then you you
just I I'd have to go back and look at
the text. Yeah. Then it then it
resonated like, "Oh, the new STA book
coming out is a technical manual." Yeah.
Holy. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz you texted me,
you're like, "Waiting for a root canal.
This is much better news." Or something
to that effect. Yeah. It was Yeah. Yeah.
This makes the day a little bit better.
Yeah. Um Yeah. It literally on a day
where you're having I mean, literally,
how many how many jokes are there? Like
how worse can a day be when you're
having a root canal? Um Oh, and don't
even get me started on the jokes. Yeah,
I literally I mean how you and not only
that, you can you can pre-order it and
get the PDF. So you literally can that
day look at the book and I did. Yeah.
Well, so did I. Yes. Yeah. So you did it
quicker than me. I didn't I waited till
I got home. I mean in all fairness on my
computer, right? Um
but holy moly. Oh man. Yeah. Um, it's
and totally not totally not what I was
expecting based off of Jim's hints,
which we will talk about in in the
interview we had with Jim and Michael
and Al. Yeah. Yeah. It's a really it's
um it's it's it's kind of a special
interview. I mean, all these guys have
have graced us with their presence
before and we're grateful for that. Uh
but but man uh when we saw this come
out, you and I immediately were like we
need to ask the writing team to come on
like now. Like now. You were really
emphatic about that, too. We were like
cuz you and I were recording that night,
I think. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And we're
like you were like I think I was like
see if they'll come tonight which was
which was ridiculous cuz everyone has
lives. But they were really I mean we
put this together really quickly and to
their credit I mean they're all friends
of the podcast at this point and and all
three Jim and Michael and Al they're
just friends now. Yeah. Right. And they
were just like let's do it. And and
there was actually one other supposed to
be with us. Um and then life happened
and and so he'll be coming he'll be
coming to talk more broadly in the next
the next many weeks.
Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. So, as everyone, you
know, goes back 15 seconds and then puts
it down to.5x. Yeah. Exactly. Um, uh, so
yeah. So, so we were we were really
eager to talk to them about the tech
manual and not just because it's an STA
tech manual. And I mean, you know, I I
certainly I'll just speak for myself. I
absolutely love both the TOS and the TNG
tech manuals. the toos tech manual that
a friend introduced me to. Isn't there a
DS912? There is and I have it. Yeah,
you're right. But that I love that one.
That's my I I agree. That one's written
a bit differently again. Um but but the
toos tech manual that a friend
introduced me to sophomore year of high
school.
No, no, no. Um I didn't No. Um that
shocks me. Scott and I didn't become
really close until senior year and he
was already in in outside of Madison. Um
but but no, I had a friend uh at the
time, Ken, and he was really
into Star Trek and you know, I was I was
really into Star Trek, but just like I
loved the movies and I thought the show
was fun, right? like I was already
definitely definitely a Treky, but for
me that was the movies, the original
films and then the start of TNG, right,
which has been out for just a few years
at this point. But what really really
brought me down the rabbit hole of Trek
was TNG on the one hand and the toos
tech manual and being introduced to that
level of
insight, right? And then when the TNG
tech manual came out later, it was like
mindb blown because it was really
written as a tech manual. So when we
when you and I saw a tech manual for
Star Trek
Adventures, it was like this is
incredible. But not just because of the
geekery and the mechanics and the detail
all there. You and I picked up the PDF.
Like we ordered the obviously the print,
but we were reading through the PDF
immediately and I think you're the one
who said to me first like this is still
lit RPG. this is readable, not just as a
tech manual. This is readable.
And we reached out and I mean, you're
going to hear it in the interview.
They're like, "Yeah, we know we did that
on purpose." They did. They I think I
think I think you had in in preparing
and in talking and correct me if I'm I
probably even I probably even shouldn't
say this. I think you were talking to
Jim and I think beforehand in
preparation. Yeah. you know, for this.
And he had even mentioned that that was
something that was an underlying
current. Yeah. That they intentionally
went for, you know, and and
something we we conducted an interview
last night for a future episode. Yeah.
That is going to be a great one. It's a
good one, man. Oh, man. and you'll so
foreshadowing something that came up in
that interview last night that still
resonates with me 24 hours later is
interesting that's that's
it's the our guest said the material
that they're working on was is can be
used as coffee table material.
Yes. Yes. And I loved that. Yeah.
So, this is the tech manual and this and
our guest even said, "Oh, Utopia
Planenia is like that, too." And it
absolutely is. And I I even joked and
said, "I have an extra copy because I
keep one up at my old man chair." Yep.
And and at least you're calling it what
it is. It is. That's what it is. Um, you
know, I keep that with with my extra
copy of Captain's Log and your Metamucil
and your cane. And you've got No, no,
no. I don't have Metamucil, but I do
have I do have my multivitamin there.
Um,
but it's not an over 50 one. I have to
take a special one. Well, we'll ignore
the irony. Yeah. Yeah. So, but moving
on. Um, but no, but you know, that's one
of those things where I'm just going to,
you know, when we talk about a lit RPG
and the and the questions we ask when we
next have our a lit RPG review session.
Yeah. Um, it's one of those it's not
really a true question, but it is. is is
it would you put it out on a coffee
table for a sci-fi fan
and that's provocative, you know, isn't
it? And and this is one of those books
that that you could put out there and
they'd look at it and they'd be
fascinated by it. They'd be curious
perhaps about some of the the STA
numbers and some of that information. Y
and um and we talk about it. It it could
spur their interest. in STA or they just
might pick it up because it's just great
ST. I could see I could see from that
from that perspective, Brad, I could see
having not not the gaming playing
perspective, but the right the lit, the
reading, the coffee table perspective of
putting out the game master guide, the
players guide, and the tech manual.
Yeah. and you'd basically have the
entirety of track. That's another thing,
by the way, that I is really neat about
the tech manual that it's all the way up
to now,
right? And actually, this will some of
you will figure this out readily, but so
as we as we are recording this, it's the
same day. No, it's one day after the uh
full trailer for Strange New World
season 3 dropped, which I haven't
watched yet. Oh my god. You have to
You've got to watch it. And you need to
watch the Tales of the Underworld from
Star Wars trailer. Yes. And you know
what? And I sent you a trailer earlier
today and I can't believe I missed those
two. And I sent you the I did not know
there was a naked new a new naked gun
coming. I didn't either until I sent you
that trailer. Incredible. Yes. I thought
it was I did not know until it popped up
in my blog roll as And it was in such a
random area, too. But moving on. Moving
on. But but this this idea of it being
and you know when every time you hear
coffee table book for those of us that
that you know were a little older you
know teen years or older in the 90s you
you probably think of Seinfeld and
Kramer coffee table book about coffee
tables but um truly you know there's
we're going to be talking about more
books that are great coffee table
material with our with the guests that I
alluded to but um I just I just think of
that is is it is this is great and even
the book cover and the art in it
everything. Okay, the art
but but again we could talk about this
for hours before and we haven't even
gotten to the to the interview. We
should get into the interview because
it's as you can imagine it's a lengthier
interview. It's it's it really moves. So
any any listeners of Dyson Mind will be
familiar with all of these individuals.
Jim Johnson, Al Speder, Michael Dismuk.
Um, they've all been on the show more
than once. They'll all be back. Um,
although I think if we have Jim on
anymore, we probably have to like start
offering to pay for a car. I don't know.
It comes after the smoking jacket. Um,
something smoking jacket. It was a
non-smoking Well, it was a non-smoking
DS9 sweatshirt, which is It was a
non-smoking DS9 hoodie.
[Music]
Jim Johnson was born about the same time
Apollo 12 landed on the moon and has
always been kind of spacey and shares a
birthday with the Kindle. He is the
author of the Pistols and Pyramids weird
western series and the Ptoic Shadows
urban fantasy series. He's also written
a bunch of other stuff in and around the
science fiction and fantasy genres and
pen and paper RPGs. He's currently
project manager and line editor for
Medifius's Star Trek Adventures RPG. Al
Speder is a middle school science
teacher, father of 5-year-old twin boys
and a freelance RPG writer and game
designer. As a regular writer for Star
Trek Adventures and lead designer of the
Sensions 2D20 RPG, Al brings his
knowledge of neurode divergence and
social emotional learning to the TT RPG
community. Michael Dismuk is a certified
professional in talent development and
certified leadership development and
succession strategist. He is a national
speaker, trainer, and consultant, a
freelance writer for the Star Trek
Adventures RPG, and a published comic
[Music]
creator. Introductions are done.
Everyone knows everyone here. Let's talk
about the new book that's out. We have
three of the folks that were highly
involved in this. We're going to take a
different spin though because um Jim,
you've been out on the tour. We've had
all of you have been talking about this
book. I kind of want to talk about and
Jason and I want to talk about um not
necessarily going into, you know, like a
chapter by chapter thing. You have a lot
of discussion out there with a lot of
great people talking about it. Can we
talk a bit more about the the genesis
behind putting this together? Because
this is a different type of source book.
When I go and look at my shelf of source
material, I have the operation, you
know, I have the division manuals, I
have the quadrant manuals. This is
different. And the day that this was
announced, I immediately went and
grabbed my old technical manuals because
it was just so nostalgic to hear about
this. Um what was the onus behind kind
of so so even if I even even bigger
umbrella why this topic? Why this team
of writers? Thank you. Yes cuz we know
most actually I think yeah we know
almost all of you. Some of you fairly
well. Why Jim? Why these guys? We do
know all of you. Yeah. Well but but
there are a couple who we don't know.
Not as well. Well amongst our amongst
our our guests here we Yeah. So why
Oh boy. Uh I I'll try to keep it short
and sweet. Um can't be done. So we uh we
got time. I know. I know. But I I also
want to be conscious of rambling too
much because I have a really bad habit
of doing that. Um so you know we were
developing second edition and um we did
the first round of products, right? We
we knew we were doing the the quick
start, the core book, the game toolkit,
and the starter set. Those would be the
first ones out the out the gate that
first year, right? The first eight
months or whatever it was from from
launch. And we we knew we needed to
start thinking, okay, what are we going
to be doing as our first year of
supplements after that, right? And um so
pretty quickly, I mean, even while we
were still developing, we were near the
end of the development of the core book,
we we knew we wanted we needed to start
filling the slate of products to work on
for 2025 and 2026 and so on so forth. Um
and we looked at the body of work that
we had already done for first edition.
And we knew going into second edition
that we were consciously not going to
regurgitate content from first edition.
And we weren't going to do a, you know,
a Shackleton 2.0 or a command source
book 2.0. We were going to do net new
stuff, right? Certainly, we would be
reusing some content from first edition
and and re-imagining it or rewriting it
and then putting it into a new product,
but overall all the new products were
going to be new, right? So, knowing
that, um, we said, okay, what haven't we
done yet? Right? And um we also knew
that with the launch of a new edition,
there was an opportunity for us to maybe
target a market that we haven't really
targeted before. And that was like the
casual Star Trek fan who may want to
check out the game, but maybe are really
just looking for a cool new Star Trek
supplement that they can't get out in
the general non-fiction world of science
Star Trek because there's a lot of great
Star Trek non-fiction out there. haven't
been a lot of technical manuals recently
other than the Hero Collector/Eagle Moss
um you know repackaging of the fact
files and other stuff and they did one
of those for Voyager NextG DS9 and the
original series uh they didn't touch any
of the newer new any of the new track
right uh so we so I knew like when when
leadership said okay let's do a
technical manual what does that look
like and then you know we hashed out the
the parameters of what does that look
like what does that mean and you know we
had to page count to to target and uh we
had you know all of our goals and stuff
and it was like well you know as I was
looking at my shelf of non-fiction and
looking at what was coming for
non-fiction Star Trek I was like there
really hasn't been a new technical
manual in decades and certainly not one
that covers all the new track right
nothing's out there right now for
prodigy strange new worlds or uh like
like I mean lower decks to some extent
that that certo handbook came out that
was pretty awesome uh and then our our
lower decks book but there just hasn't
been anything comprehensive right? There
hasn't been a comprehensive tech manual.
So, uh that was kind of the marching
orders from Medifius leadership was
let's make the first supplement out the
gate, the technical manual. I was like,
"Okay, let's go." And uh so I started,
you know, putting together the initial
outline and then uh u once that kind of
came together um you know, you you asked
why this group of people and um I I
think uh the timeline is always an
issue, right? who who's available and
who can write fast and who can write
good fast. And um each of those
categories has a slightly different size
of people associated with it, right? And
uh it just worked out that um the the
first bunch on my list were
available and
um and that's where where I went. Right.
This was a this book, like if you get
into the weeds a little bit about the
project management. Um, some of our
books in pre in first edition, it was
really kind of a free-for-all where I'd
invite a bunch of writers in and they'd
say, "Oh, I want to write this section
or I want to write this section. I want
to write this section." And there was a
little bit of push and pull and give and
take and eventually we got the thing
done. Uh, but that turned turned to be a
bit chaotic from time to time because
especially for me doing the doing the
number crunching and the paperwork, it's
like, "Ah, shoot. who who wrote this
chapter? Well, Al wrote a thousand words
and Michael wrote 2,000 words and you
know Aaron wrote 150 words. And like
having to try keep track of all that
over a 200page book has just turned into
a big pain in the butt. So this time I
said, "Hey, chapter one, Nathan, you go
write chapter one. Chapter two. Hey D,
you go write chapter two. Here's your
topic." And and so that that simplified
my workload. And I think just in talking
to Alan, Michael, and they can certainly
add some color. Um, I think it made it
easier on them because they knew I'm
just focused on medical technology. I'm
just focused on diplomatic core. I'm
just focused on weapons and and uh, you
know, armor. And I think that makes it
easier for them. Gives them some
ownership over the chapters and uh, and
just, you know, keeps things moving
along. So, I think it was uh, you know,
putting together a list of teams, you
know, plus I've got two other books in
development now, too, right? there's
another book coming out and another book
coming out and you know more coming out
and so spreading the wealth like I got a
lot of freelancers available to me right
not everybody can work on every book as
much as I would like them to but I also
respect my freelancers too much to say
hey you want a hundred words on this
book you want 100 words on this book you
know because like no one wants that
small of an assignment I mean I'm sure
some people I I'm listening to you and
like I'm watching El's smile grow bigger
and bigger and it's like you can almost
see the thought bubble like I Bill.
Well, no. I think Well, yes, I guess
he's probably thinking that, but Al over
the last year plus has also gotten a lot
of experience as a project manager on
his own stuff and he's probably having
these exact same pain points of like,
okay, I've got 30 freelancers and X
number of products. I can't service all
of them, you know, meaningfully. So, how
do I do the best I can with what I with
what I've got? So, um, you know, and
some, you know, some freelancers reached
out to me after the announcement and
said, "Hey, did I miss an email? why
wasn't I involved in this? It's like,
oh, or you know, it's not that I'm
ignoring you. It's just like I didn't
have enough work for everybody, so come
around to you again and you've already
got work on this other thing and it's
all good. Um, but you know, writers, we
are all very insecure and uh that's just
the nature of the of the job, right? And
I I get it because that's I'm the same
way, right? So, I I totally respect it
coming from other writers. Um, but
anyway, so that's that's it. Basically,
got the assignment, figured out what we
had to do, reached out to a bunch of
writers, and then charged forward. Um,
you know, there were a couple writers
who said, "No, I'm not available." And
that's unfortunate. You know, you know
me, I always try to make the team uh
super diverse and and across the board.
Uh I can only do so much when people say
no. I mean, it's like I want I want
everybody to say yes, but I mean, we're
all freelancers, right? So, we're all
busy and we've all got different gigs
going on. And if someone's not
available, then it's like, "Okay, I'm
sorry I missed you. I'll try to catch
you next time and hope your schedule,
you know, clears up or whatever." Um,
so, you know, not to say that this is
not a, you know, a diverse team. It
could have certainly been more diverse.
I I'll own that. Um, but there's only so
much I can do with with time and it
probably sounds like an excuse, but
that's just the reality of being a
project manager and knowing that I've
got to get it done and also also, Jim,
the the cost of of producing RPG books
right now is through the roof, right?
So, we're trying to pay close attention
to page count. we're trying to play pay
close attention, you know, to how, you
know, the weight of the book and and
like there's only so much to go around.
So, um, you know, I appreciate that you
had us on board to to help out with
that. Um, but I think like I I saw a
core rule book today that was $70 on the
shelf at my That's not uncommon anymore.
So, it's not honestly. So luckily
luckily, you know, because we're
keeping, you know, the we're not putting
out 300page monsters every single book.
Um, you know, there's only so much to go
around. Yeah. And that was a challenge
for this book. I'll be honest. Uh, some
of some of our late first edition books
like um like the Discovery book and the
Federation Cling on War book and Lower
Decks, those were like, you know, 200
240 pages. And it was nice to have that
that that space and that ability to kind
of expound on things. and you know
honestly to be a little indulgent in
some places to like oh yeah let's let's
let's add more tables here or let's
let's go into more detail on the
packlets over here or whatever. Uh but
for second edition we wanted to be
really really more stringent and more
rigorous about the about page count and
everything. So um so this came in at 12.
You know, the target goal for this was
128 and and I did my very very best to
stick to that. And you know,
unfortunately, we had to cut a good
chunk of content, which I hate doing,
but a lot of it will find its way either
into blog posts or into other
publications. Um, you know, everybody
got, you know, paid for all the work
they did, but uh we just had to cut it
in layout because it was like the the
initial layout was like 170 something
pages. I was like, "Yeah, that ain't
going to fly. We didn't just start
chopping."
Uh so yeah, unfortunately a lot of great
stuff got uh got whacked out of here and
that's you know it's unfortunate but
that's just the nature of the business.
Like Al said books especially print
books are not getting cheaper and uh and
now we've got you know US new
administration who are going to be
imposing tariffs on everybody and that's
just going to make the prices go up
because uh you know big surprise the end
customer is the one who gets hit with
the tariff. It's not the it's not the
country surprise. M so um we're just
trying to be conscious of that and
trying to make and you guys print you
guys do a lot of printing overseas too
right in Lithuania and all print America
it's too expensive. Yeah. Yeah. I I have
to So Al Michael so you get the call as
so to speak from Jim you interested in
writing for the new STA tech manual? I
mean come on did like it blows my mind
that anyone said no we'll come back to
that. Did did no even cross either of
your minds to be offered to write on
something like Right. They're both
they're both shaking their heads. I
mean, this is this is pretty unique,
right? I mean, how I can't imagine you
guys saying no to something like this.
I was begging for this. I I'm a big fan
of the TNG technical manual and and the
Eagle Moss books about Voyager and Deep
Space 9. And yes, being a modern
educator, you know, at work and stuff, I
I just felt though that was good for the
Grognard set of which we are all
retiring from. Um, it wasn't matching
how people consume information nowadays.
So, I've been dying for a new technical
manual. And if RPG is the first one
that's going to get the one to break
that, then good. Um, so I was so like
thrilled with this because playing with
the new generation, you know, I have
people who've never watched Star Trek
who play RPG with me. I needed to give
them some if I handed them the technical
manual, they would have been like, "Do
tyrion what?" You know, but in this
case, we could really start from the
foundation as a jumping off point for
people. If they're interested, they can
still go buy the TNG manual on Amazon if
they want to get deeper. But if they
just need enough just to one understand
the Star Trek universe a little bit
better from a technical side or two to
enhance their playing experience for
their character, then I was thrilled by
this opportunity. Well, and I'll say on
that note, it's just before you jump in
because I know you're going to add
substantially, but I'll say true to what
and this is kind of more toward you,
Jim, but true to what SJ has done for so
long now, like this is a tech manual and
like you guys know Brad and I like
Crunchy. Absolutely. Like I I love like
the TNG tech manual is like top of my
list like right like that's that's like
I still aspire and I know this won't
happen but I want to teach a university
course someday with the tech manual like
I just want to teach that course right
um that said the STA2E tech manual it's
so dense of with
information
and its narratives start to finish,
right? And so it's just and I mean this
doesn't surprise us at all cuz like Jim
this is your thing like we know how many
times have we talked to you here on and
offline about this but that's that's a
real feat where it's it's storytelling
the whole way through. I mean, you even
peel back the fourth wall numerous
times, more than I've seen in previous
ones of hey, tell stories like this or
hey, you don't have to whatever it,
right? Like no matter how geeky and deep
it
gets, it's still like still lit, which
which is pretty fun to read. Al, you
were gonna I Yeah, I was I was just
going to add that um first of all, uh we
were excited when we heard this because
we had no idea this was coming and we
kind of just like uh I thought back to
like how awesome the Utopia Planenicia
guide was and how that we could hearken
back to the olden days of Trebooks. Um
and so we wanted to do that here as
well. Uh but I I think like when we had
the initial discussion it was hey
equipment in
2e is a trait right uh and so how can we
make this interesting uh and and
andformational for people and that's
where we kind of started going with the
you know the explanation of what this
means within a story uh and and
providing the uh complication tables
that go along with this as you're
telling a story, you know. Um, and then
we what we quickly realized very early
on was this was not just a twoe book.
This was a twoe book. This was a onee
ebook and this was a captain's log book,
right? All mixed into one. And that got
us even more excited. Yeah. I like that
that was stated upfront too in the
manual. Like really really bringing
together, right? Like in my mind they're
the like they're the same in the most
positive way like right they feed each
other. But I like that like it was
called out directly. Okay. So, back to
the the design stuff, the
conceptualization stuff. So, it sounds
like each of the writers, right, cuz we
got about half of you here from the
project, each of the writers was
assigned give or take a chapter, right?
You had your your focus, but like was
there ever early on be more than just
email, was there ever a writing room?
Like, how like did you get together to
kind of break the story if you will? I
mean, don't get me like Jim, I mean, you
you know, talk about the puppet master.
Like, I know in your head this is all
there and you see how this works, but
still you pulled in like a lot of I
mean, they're all first rate writers and
and now designers. Did you guys ever in
whole or in part like get together over
Zoom or whatnot and really break this
out high concept? Or was it just, you
know, was it just Jim, you you you knew
they would do X, Y, and Z well and so
you send them off? Like that's the kind
of stuff that makes me curious. Uh uh
Allan Michael, correct me if I'm wrong,
but I think for this one, I think I came
into it with an outline that was pretty
tight. And by working with the
leadership team at Medifius, we we we
use Moscow. Like if you're familiar with
Moscow, you know, we're product. What's
your must have? What you should have?
What's your could have? What's your
won't have? And and when you go through
Moscow, you're like, okay, we're making
this product. what are the things that
absolutely must be in this product or we
just don't make it or we just give up on
it and we can't do it. So we had a short
bullet list of musts and okay and then
we were like okay so if given the page
count if we could fit more in what would
we fit in? Okay, we can fit in this and
this and this. Okay, and then we go and
go on down. And so what you do with the
Moscow then is once you come up with a
final product, you got the final
manuscript and you're 60 pages over and
you say, "Well, shoot, what do I cut?"
You go to the Moscow and say, "Well,
this was a could
have. That's the first to go. Then you
you kill all your cut you kill all your
could haves and then you get to your
shoulds and that's where it really
starts to hurt. I mean it all hurts but
it really starts to hurt when you get
into the shoods. Like you know should
this book cover Romulan technology?
Should this book cover cling on
technology and then if you have to start
cutting then you start you get into the
bone and it really starts to get
painful. Uh but we didn't have to go
quite that far. Anyway, so in answer to
your question, I think I came into this
book with a pretty solid outline and a
solid Moscow. And I was able to say,
"Okay, I know everybody's talents at
this point." Uh, and I know I can
confidently give Dayton this chapter and
this chapter. I can give Al this chapter
and this chapter. I'll give Michael this
chapter and this chapter. And Aaron, you
know, got the rest of it. And then
Nathan did the chapter on the mechanics
because he's he's on mechanics. I see no
reason not to use him, especially since
his schedule was available. And I was
like, "Oh, you you're available to write
8,000 words on uh on new talents and new
career events and stuff, mechanical
stuff like that. Okay, I'll use you. Go
to work." Um because he you know, and
this is a you know, a little Never mind,
I can't talk about it. Okay. Uh just
budget stuff. Um but it's I was thinking
the same thing though about It was funny
the other day. Yeah, it was funny the
other day though. I I decided whenever
I've learned to do this now. Whenever a
book comes out, I go back and look what
I originally submitted because I'm dying
to know what got cut, right? For two
selfish reasons. One, I want to know if
I can put on continuing missions, you
know, so but I can't because because
it's already once once I'm paid by
Paramount, I no longer
um and then fortunately though, Jim, and
this is for everyone to know, you're not
going to lose it because Jim makes sure
it gets out there through the Medifius
blog. So, so the Medifius blog you're
going to see over the past couple years
and especially I think going forward is
going to be the place to get that arata.
I don't know if that's the right word to
use for it. Arata or appendix, whatever
you want to say. So, you'll get the full
material which we which which or even
like Apocrypha. Apocrypha. Yeah, maybe
that's a better word for it. Um, but
it's it's going to come out. There's
some really good stuff in there. I was
looking through my chapters I was
working on. I was like, "Oh, that got
cut. Oh, that got cut." But Jim assured
me that it's still gonna be okay. So let
me actually let me ask a followup to
that. Now I again I want especially
given how close Jim came to revealing
cookie cutting here. Um can you guys
just let me pause. Can you tell that he
has been that Jayce has been like
itching for this session? I've been
looking for this conversation. I he has
been he is bonesing for this. Well, but
we love you guys and and we love what
you all put out and you know you're just
all really remarkable lovely people and
every day on the news makes us so okay.
Now Michael less but but every day on
the news it's like increasingly grateful
for right for good people but but I do
have I do have a followup directly based
on what you just said Michael now I want
to ask this in a way that like isn't
going to lead us where it shouldn't so
okay so you cut this is all hypothetic
you cut those 60 pages Jim right and but
but you still own that right that's
Mifific's that and and we right you're
not going to get rid of that I'm curious
from the standpoint of the writers so so
okay so Michael wrote all of that other
stuff, right? 45 extra pages on cling on
houses. Wouldn't surprise me. And which
I which is awesome. Still waiting for
Yeah. So, that was so much fun. Side
note, creating my house. That was so
much fun, Michael. It was ridiculous.
Um, but uh so behind on that, sorry. I
got to ask I I got to ask Jim. I'm just
going to ask right now. Can you Can you
Are you allowed to say what's going to
come out in blogs or is that considered
Indiana? Wait, wait, wait. Let me let me
ask my question first cuz I don't that I
thought that was where you're going.
Well, no, no, no. I was uh more basic
from a writer point of view. So, Jim
writes uh Jim Michael writes like 40
extra pages on Klingons. You have to cut
it, Jim, cuz right because you got 128
pages. But, but of course, you have that
really good
material down the road it you find,
okay, that's perfect for the another
book or maybe the next next book,
whatever it is. I'm curious just from
the production aspect, the editing
aspect. So, is that the kind of thing
where like you reach out to the writer
or is it just you put it in when it
comes out, you let the writer know,
right? Cuz you already have it and
assuming you don't want them to like
revise it, but you have all of that
extra content, a lot of which probably
makes its way in. I'm just curious from
the project management standpoint, like
how do you handle that with the writers?
I know they've been paid and all that,
but like it, you know, with what they
wrote. Yeah. Well, it's um
uh I mean, not to sound mercenary, but
once the writer delivers their
manuscript and it's edited and it's
approved by Paramount and the and the
writer gets paid. Yeah. They're done.
They're out of they're out of the loop.
That that that content is now owned by
CBS Studios whether we use it or not.
Right. I could have I could have cut all
of Michael's content and said, "Hey,
sorry. We had to cut the whole chapter."
Um, and there's not anything he can do
about it. And not to say that in a
negative way. It's just like that
content is now owned by Paramount. Yeah.
Out of our hands. But, um, you know, as
a courtesy, I do try to tell my writers,
okay, we had to cut, you know, x amount
of pages. Um, but don't worry, I'm going
to repurpose it into a blog or if I can
find another product downstream to fit
it into, I'll do that. In fact, you
know, Nathan, uh, you know, because he
is the 2D20 guru at and he's written for
so many games, he has so much content
available that he can port into Star
Trek Adventures or in his head that he
can dump out. So, um, you know, he he
actually the chapter that he wrote for
the technical manual, he overwrote, but
only because he just had all this great
content and he just, you know, he gave
me a ton of content and I was like, I
love all of it. I can't possibly fit it
all into the book. So, we're gonna chop
that chapter and and maybe I'll use it
for a future book, right? TBD and um and
just did, you know, I I used as much as
I could to make it fit the book's
narrative because you talked earlier
that there's a narrative through this
book and I wanted to honor that. Um and
some of the stuff like was good content,
but it didn't quite didn't quite gel
with the rest of it. So, it just got it
got moved and I was like, I think this
will be a better blog post than it would
be a subchapter on this particular book.
And that's just a judgment call that I
have to make as a project manager and
line editor. Um, but yeah, as far as the
content, I I know Michael says, "Oh, can
I just put on my blog?" It's like, well,
no, because Param Paramount owns it and
I want to reuse it somewhere so that you
can at least stuff out there. Um, and I
will add in total transparency, and I
think Brad will appreciate this, uh, the
fact that the book came in so much over
is a fault on the project manager,
right? Because I I I I did my best
learning how to how to do second edition
versus first edition because, uh, you
know, again, getting into the technical
weeds. When you when you have a page um,
laid out in in design, depending on your
margins, your font choices, your
headers, etc., etc., etc., you can put a
different amount of words on that page
than you can in a different kind of
layout. Right? And so we made obviously
I mean just by looking at the pages you
can tell that the first edition layout
and the second edition layout very
different right the page the the average
number of words we can put on a page in
second edition is different than first
edition and I'm we there is no
um there is no good way to estimate that
until you do it right that's why we had
to go through the core book we had to go
through the we had to go through the
exercises of all these books learning
how to do it over again and so when I
commissioned the tech manual. I still
had the first edition formulas in my
head. So, I actually I commissioned more
words than I needed, but I didn't know
until we got to lay out. So, it was it
was a year until I figured it out. And
so, now with the other books that are
coming out in the next, you know, x
number of months and years. Um, I've
been dialing that. I've been tweaking
those dials. So, like the next book
that's in layout, I cut less out of that
than I did the tech manual because I'm
I'm dialing in. And the book after that,
I'm think I'm gonna cut even less
because I was continuing to dial in. So,
as a project manager, I'm still learning
how second edition works from a from a
in the weeds technical point of view.
And and hopefully I'll get to the sweet
spot where I commission the right number
of words and I won't have to cut
anything, right? The the writers will be
sad because they won't be writing as
much as they used to, but the stuff that
they write is probably going to get into
the book untouched. I mean, it'll be
edited, but it it won't be chopped down
like it has been before. And then I'll
just have to write more blog posts or I
have to get Nathan to write more blog
posts. And that's a small that's a small
problem to have. Uh, so I mean that's
and that's this is all just the nature
of the print business and um and making
it happen is is that process of
discovery, me realizing, oh yeah, the
formula's changed and I didn't even
think about it because this is the first
time I've worked on a second edition of
anything, right?
Yeah. Yeah, I would say I I would add
also um from the freelancer perspective
um you know we were working on this book
a year and a half a year ago, you know,
a year and a half ago, right? Um and so
like Michael said to see what was of our
own stuff was cut, we have to go back to
our original manuscripts and even and
even because to be honest, we're we're
on to other projects as well, right? And
so those projects are now at the
forefront of our mind. And I knew which
chapters I wrote for this, but I could
not remember to the extent at which I
wrote for each of these chapters, right?
Uh because now I'm six projects past
this. You know what I mean? Yeah. um you
know between Sentience and and Once Upon
and the other Trek stuff like I wanna I
I want to I want to just I I we've
talked about this before with each one
of you, but I just want to I want to hit
this again that it's impressive that you
were all working on this a year and a
half ago. we've been talking for a year
and a half and the ability just to
compartmentalize
and keep it to yourself way to put it,
you know, and maintain that NDA and that
secrecy and everything like that. It's
impressive. It's hard to do. It's very
hard to do. Shut up works really well in
life, I found. Yeah, it of course. But
but I mean, you know, we all work we all
have worked in the corporate world in
one form or another, you know, or not
me. I got I I avoided that whole plague.
Yeah, I guess. But yeah, you're special.
Um but you know, ultimately, but you've
worked in environments where you've had
to work in situations where you've had
to keep Well, I mean, clinically, right?
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, of course. Um
whether they're, you know, HIPPA or NDA,
you've had to keep things like that. And
it's just I find that I still find that
impressive because in today's day and
age where everyone posts everything
online the minute after it comes out.
Um, well, especially given given how how
how how like active all of you are on
social media and like Jim, you know,
you're I mean, my god, you're you're
everywhere on social media on behalf of
STA, right? And and constantly
responding to readers and gamers and
fans and yeah, I I agree. It's just you
provide so much
information, but it's always within that
box, right? And that is definitely a
skill to be learned. Can I can I sidebar
just on that note alone? The the hints
that you were giving out on the Facebook
group were were
phenomenal.
What when you decided to do
that, the clues that you were giving?
Yeah. What what made you decide to do
that? one and two the path you took
which was if I remember correctly you
were you were hinting towards you were
giving people if I Jason I think told
this to me because I didn't get this
well someone someone figured it one one
of the guys on season 3 episode 14s
right twelves yeah four 314
um is that right did I have it or 12 was
it 12 yeah but that was so clever god
yeah clever what what was the what was
the mindset behind doing that I just
have to if if you're willing to if
you're willing to talk about it, maybe
you are. Before he even goes there, we
didn't know that he was going to be
doing this. He didn't tell us. So, it
started getting us excited. That's
awesome. So much so that I took the day
off from work for reveal day because I
knew everyone was so excited and I
wanted to interact with people online.
So, yeah. Jim, where'd you come up with
it? So um so I mean Al just told you uh
you know I I I am so good at
compartmentalizing that I even I I
compartmentalize with with the closest
freelancers that I work with, right? I
just even though they're working on the
book, I I still keep it keep it here
as as much as I can. Like I I I'll drop
some stuff sometimes and like I I I I
get tired of being the only person who
sees everything. And so sometimes I'll
send Al and Michael and some of the
other folks like a little screenshot of
some of the art that's in progress or
just little bits and bobs here just to
get them excited, right? Just to say,
"Hey, look at this cool that we're
cool stuff that we're making. Excuse me.
Isn't this great?" And and I don't have
anybody to share this with. Like because
like my partner appreciates that I enjoy
what I do, but she's not passionate
about that. Man, was that well said.
Yeah. And uh and and my son's nine. He
doesn't care about any of this stuff. He
just knows I'm a YouTuber and he's
excited about that. Yeah. Um but anyway,
so I I think we've talked on many of
your shows in the past where um you
know, I work on this game all the time,
right? Like it's constantly on my mind.
I'm working at I'm doing edits in the
middle of the night. I'm doing art
briefs. I'm doing stuff on the weekends.
It's like don't tell my man my manager
that I don't work the weekends. Yeah.
Air quotes. Um, but uh, so I don't know,
there was somewhere in the in the throws
of finalizing the book and getting it
off to print, I was like, "Okay, um, I
want to do some just like just fun
little tweaking with the fans because I
I've been on social media with these
guys with with the folks for so long
now.
I I think they trust me and I trust them
and I've got a good rapport with the
fans on so on on you know Discord and
Reddit and uh and the Facebook groups
and stuff and I was like how about I how
about we have some fun. I knew what the
release date I knew what the pre-order
release date was going to be. it was
going to be March 12th. Mhm. And I was
like, what can I do with March 12th that
would be fun for the fans to like kind
of figure out and and I came up with
this halfbaked idea. Again, this was
like 1:00 in the morning because I was
editing the next book and I was like,
"Okay, I need a break because I'm like
my eyes are glazing over and I just
needed something to do." And like that
the small hours of the night are when I
get my best ideas or or worst ideas that
I think are great. So, I had this idea.
Why don't I go through episodes that
were season 3, episode 12, cuz that's
kind of funny. Like episodes 312. So,
312. Okay, there's that whole numerology
thing. And I did my research and I was
like, okay, so six of the series
actually had a third season and had 12
episodes. Like Lower Decks was out
because they they only did 10 episodes.
Stranger Worlds was out because they've
only done two seasons. And Peicard was
out because they only did 10 se 10
episodes in their season. So, I was
like, "Okay, so I got these six, and
what I'll do is I'll is I'll take a
screenshot from each episode that
actually focuses on some piece of
technology from that episode, right? To
kind of give the fans a couple things to
think about. First of all, why this
episode? Are they going to make the
connection that it's 312 over and over
and over again? And are they going to
pick up on the fact that it's a piece of
technology?" Because maybe trying to get
them around to thinking about it's a
techbook. Um, and then I I didn't have
any particular order of which ones I was
going to start throwing out there. And I
just started doing it. Actually, you
know what? Before I did that, I went to
my um marketing manager, uh, April or
the social media manager, April, and
then to Share, who's one of the
marketing guys. I was like, "Hey guys, I
got this crazy idea for marketing." And
I went on a spiel on our on our chat for
a few minutes. And they were both like,
"I don't get
it. God, do this. Do this. Don't do
this." And they're like, "Okay." I was
like, "I think it'll get some fan
engagement. What do you think?" And
they're like, "Okay, give it a try."
They really, they were non plus. They
didn't really know what to expect. Uh,
which is fine. It was, you know, inside
I was crushed cuz like, oh, no one no
one no one gets it. That's okay. Um, but
I also accepted that it was a stupid
idea 3, you know, 2 o'clock in the
morning and who knows how it would hit,
right? I don't know. Um, but then I
started posting it and and fans started
responding to it, which is exactly what
I wanted is I wanted them to be talking
about the game because at this point,
you know, the starter side came out two
months ago. That's almost I mean that's
old news, right? That's that might might
as well have come out a year ago. Just
the way how fast fans want new stuff and
and move on to other things because
there's just so many distractions now.
Not even counting the current, you know,
social and political world that we're
there's just a tons of distraction out
there right now, right? if you're trying
to trying to, you know, make a game and
sell something. So, I was like, how do
we, you know, how do we get some
conversation going? So, I just started
throwing out these screenshots every few
days just to see what happens. And, you
know, the fans, to their credit, came up
with some amazing connections that I
didn't even see. I was like, "Oh, yeah,
maybe." Oh, yeah. Yeah. Like, cuz I
think we did um High Ground and like two
other episodes that were all related to
terrorism, right? And like kidnapping
and stuff. I'm like, "Oh, that's not the
direction I wanted to go. Okay, I'll
just keep going." And uh and eventually
somebody on Facebook was like, I think
it's a book I think it's a book about
technology that we haven't seen yet. And
then somebody on Discord a couple days
later was like um oh, you know, this is
this is the fourth time. It's an episode
from the third season, episode 12. So
maybe something there's about 312. And
you know, going back to that
compartmentalization, I didn't want to
tip my hand. So, I just kept throwing
screenshots out there and just didn't
say anything about yes or no or oh,
you're getting close or you're getting
warmer because I didn't want to I didn't
want to tweak fans that much, right?
Like I want to throw it out there and
and see what happens cuz I remember, you
know, years ago when we were trying to
do more marketing for the game, like if
we kept teasing stuff long enough, fans
started getting pissed off. They were
like, "Okay, I'm tired of the I'm tired
of I'm tired of the teases. Just tell us
what the damn thing is so we can get on
with it." It's like, so there's a
there's a there's a there's a balancing
point of like where you can go you can
do too much or you can do not enough and
then you do it just right. So I don't
know if it worked out, but I'm glad to
hear you guys enjoyed it. Um I'll have
to do something different for the next
one because now you know this Yeah, you
can't reuse that. I got to do something
different. Well, I I you know, I don't
know if that I don't know. I mean, you
can't you can I think it's worthwhile.
You can use screenshots of shows and all
that and just find a different find a
different tie. I think it was really I
think it was a a cute way to a neat way
to get people engaged and it was a
successful strategy. Yeah. And you got
and you did it you did it at the right
time so that it was early enough that uh
you got people talking but it wasn't so
early that people got annoyed. You know
like you said you know if you go too far
ahead people will get irritated because
you're because then you're promising
that's with any you you're a PM. You
know how this works. If you go too far
ahead before a product launch and
ultimately, you know, people get
irritated because they're waiting for
the product and they're not getting it.
Um, and but you didn't go so close that
you didn't get enough time to really
tease it. Yeah. That's why it makes me
laugh when when fans say, you know, I
wish you would tell us like a year in
advance what products are coming. It's
like, well, no, I'm not going to tell
you a year in advance because you'll
forget in six months and then and then
it'll come out in, you know, 12 months.
You'll be like, oh, I didn't know this
was coming out. It's like, well, we told
I think with some with some
games I think you could do ideas. Yeah.
Where they'll have a bunch of ideas that
could not get incorporated and then
they'll get mad when it comes out
because you don't listen to the fans,
you know. So, Right. Right. Fans are,
you're right, I'm a super fan. We're a
finicky, fickle, and a lot certain
games. I think with some IPs you could
do that. I think there are some IPs that
may allow for that, but I don't know. I
don't know if personally I've thought
about that because I know there are some
games that I like that do provide for
that. But um there's also some games out
there that have done that and
consistently not anyone that we've we've
interacted with through our podcast, but
there are games out there that
consistently miss it. Um not that you
guys would, but because they've done
that, they don't have goodwill with
their fan base. Um, you know, ju to come
back to the writing for for a moment
here. Uh, and well, you just cut me off,
didn't you? Way to go there. You you you
paused. We're good. So, to come back to
the writing for a sec. Um, he's all
giddy. He's all giddy like a with like a
like a school girl. We're talking about
Yeah. Well, yes. You know, House on
fire. So, to talk about the Yeah. So,
this is I mean, we're all familiar with
the classic Star Trek tech manuals and
and especially like like especially the
toos and the TNG. Like those were very
techy, excuse me, very techy manuals.
Like I I was introduced to the toos
manual when I was in a high school and
like that that that glorious book that's
what took me from being someone who
really loved like you know the toos
movies cuz that's that's what I grew up
on. That's what took me from that to
like this is a lot of fun. This is
really cool to like I'm in it like this
is an entire world. Right. But those
were very techy. Yeah. very techy and
very tricky. But but you guys all then
wrote a tech manual like we said before
that's really really detailed, super
geeky, delightful, but obviously has a
very different feel of an actual tech
manual, right? It's it's a tech manual,
but you can I mean you can sit down and
read it, right? Like one of the first
things I did was sit down and read the
bit on diplom and diplomacy. It was
like, "Oh my god, we're how many
decades, right? We're pushing six
decades of Star Trek and how many
diplomatic episodes and and you know,
like Star Trek 6, come on." And like
someone finally wrote like, "Oh, by the
way, this is huge in Star Trek and you
can play this." Really cool. But I'm
curious like for all of you
guys like like how how did you make the
transition as writers from okay I'm
writing a technical document which is a
different animal to I'm writing about
really technical stuff but I'm I'm
writing it in pros and I want it to be
narrative and all that like how do you
make that jump like as
writers? I mean, I go back to the the
goal that I kind of set out when I
write, and I think Jim wants us to do,
too, is that every line needs to be its
own potential
encounter. So, so I I I did the part on
diplom diplomacy or diplomatic assets
that you were talking about. Nicely
done, Jason. I I just love the HR of
Star Trek, you know. So, so with that,
um
there's this stuff doesn't come out of
nowhere. Like what happens in Star Trek
doesn't come out of anywhere. I really
do a lot of research with how the United
Nations does stuff. Um, in this case,
how they do search and rescue, answering
distress calls, responding to disasters.
So, I'll do all kinds of research on
like how do how does the World Health
Organization respond to a disaster? And
and so, yes, it's technical, but it's
practical. And so, I think what happened
before is because we're encouraging game
masters and players to learn how to tell
stories. So you have to give them the
power to be technical yet practical. So
finding I changed my language to find
real world comparisons if possible and
make it digestible. Um and I I think
that makes it so all of a sudden you're
empowering game masters and players to
be like whoa I could actually work in
Starf Fleet. It's not beyond me. So it's
really dignifying the players in my
opinion. I I just want to dignify people
when I write. So yes I love
technobabble. It's one of my favorite
things to play, but you have to get it
so that now all the players and game
masters are at the writer table. Mhm.
Yeah. It's really all about
accessibility, I think. Like those tech
manuals, there's a lot of really cool
information, but sometimes they're
buried under walls and walls of text,
right? Absolutely. And and I I've been
doing a lot of research into uh dyslexia
and disgraphia uh recently. Yeah. and
and you know, shorter paragraphs, lots
of breaks, change in color. Um, you
know, I it makes the text more
accessible to people that uh that have
difficult scanning pages, identifying
words, um, and so on and so forth. So,
that was kind of the the the the way
that I looked at it. Uh, we used the
tech manuals as a reference for sure. I
was wondering, but we had to I had to
like pull out the key bits and then tie
those together uh in just like three to
five sentences uh and then move on to
the next bit. Um that that was kind of
my goal just uh for an accessibility
standpoint. Well, and you guys like Jim,
you had mentioned a while ago now in
this conversation that that one of the
beautiful things of the manual is like
you it it's up well basically it's up to
date as of a year ago which is just
about up to date and track right and in
terms of future tech and tools and track
it's it's it's essentially totally up to
date until right until Starfleet Academy
comes out right cuz that's future but
you you've got Prodigy you've got uh
Picard like just incredible but like a
lot of
Sorry Jason, I just want to add one
other thing to what Al said too though.
We have to realize that we're living in
the day of the internet and chat GBT. So
if a player or a game master said, "Hey,
what is a universal translator?" They
can get memory alpha or they can get
chatty GPT to to spit that out. So I
think what um how I'm like I I try to
teach people to fish. So it's like, hey,
here's overall what it is. But then Jim
made sure to credit in the book if you
look at the very back page the actual
technical manuals or not the actual
technical manuals um that were there. So
we want to recognize that that people
can go online to get all the detail if
they want more but let's wet their
appetite with this um and point them in
the right direction. Okay. So actually
so pairing going back to that like
coming off of that. So there's obviously
a I mean it's the future so how can we
say the f but there's a lot of the
future tech right like cuz you guys
again you you cover all the way through
prodigy and of course we've seen some of
the stuff on screen but like there
hasn't been a ton written of course
right cuz there just hasn't been time
and you cover a lot of that so
delightfully and obviously not just
technically but like narratively that
that what reading through it to me that
suggests a lot of creation
on your part. Obviously adhering to the
quote unquote rules that we've seen on
the screen and obviously it it went
through Parammont. So like they gave
them premature, but but I'm c I'm always
curious reading that stuff when you guys
make it of how much like how how hard is
that? How how much conceptual lifting is
that when when you're talking about, you
know, the the Protoar and the Protoar
drive stuff like that? like like it's
not like you can like yeah you can go
fishing for that but there's not going
to be a ton out there and most of it's
not very good and yet you have to still
sort of color within those lines right
because you can't because you don't know
where it's going to go right on screen
what's it like writing that
stuff how do you do it how do you
balance that yeah I mean it's tough I
mean
like when I was looking because I I did
the medical and engineering Jim kind of
gave me a gift because there's lots
technobabble that goes around those
things and there's a lot of words that
are used um in dialogue that represent
tools, but you don't ever really get to
see what those tools are doing. So, you
have to kind of take what what the
explanation is or what the name is for
that tool and come up with what it's
being used for. So, I had to do that
quite a few times. I bounced some stuff
off of Michael. I bounced some stuff off
off of uh Aaron and um you know we came
up you know what's a spanner doing and
and and you know what's a neural
transducer doing and things like that um
just based off of because the jargon
that they put together the words make
sense they have meaning right so now we
just have to figure out well how does
that apply to medicine or how does that
apply to engineering uh and so there is
a lot there was a lot of creation in
there in that we were finally giving a
use to something that's only ever really
had a name. Nice. And you know,
fortunately to to its credit, Star Trek
has always been based off of real
science. And then, you know, putting
that science fiction lens on and saying,
"Okay, well, what if we take it to the
next level? What what if we take it to
the next degree? What what can we
imagine next?" Right? And I think Erin
has always been a great sounding board
for all of us to say, "Hey, we've got
situation X or we've got item X. What
does that look like in a thousand years
or 500 years?" like what what science
things are happening now like on the
bleeding cutting edge that are going to
be commonplace in 200 years and how do
we how do we write to that? Um, but you
know, fortunately, you know, Star Trek,
like like we've talked about
before, even though it's had hundreds of
writers and science experts and
everything, it's it's been remarkably
consistent for 60 years now, right? From
from, you know, the original series all
the way up to now. And and and stuff
works for the most part the same,
whether it's Enterprise or Discovery
32nd Century, which, you know, made it
great for this book because like, you
know what, a phaser is a phaser. A
triquarter is a triquarter. We don't
have to go down into the weeds about how
the circuit boards are made or how the
the the the the minutia is done. Like we
there's other technical manuals for that
and we love them for it, but we don't
have the page count to go into that kind
of detail. And going back to your what
you were saying about the narrative uh
for your story, it's not that important
really. Like you just make it up, but
you do throw some technobabble at move
on. Um, so, so yeah, I think um, you
know, absolutely we're we're trying to
be science fiction writers and we're
trying to be futurists and we're trying
to think about how could this stuff work
plausibly, but then specifically for the
purposes of this book, you know, the the
mandate that I gave everybody was like,
we want to explain it enough so that
people get it. They're like, okay, I
know what this thing does. I know what I
can do with it. Here's the complication
table. I can figure out how to break it
uh, if a complication comes up in the
game. Um, and that's enough, right? We
don't have to go into 20 pages about the
EPS conduits and uh and go from there.
Like we know they're there, but you
know, the nextG technical manual grew
out of the writers manual that they used
internally to help writers. Okay, I've
got this thing. I need to break it for
the dramatic purposes for my story. How
do I do that? And you know, Michael and
Rick were like, we're tired. I I don't
know that that they said we're tired of
answering these questions, but they
probably said, "Let's take the writer's
manual and like pump it up to 11 and
make it even more comprehensive and and
give writers a ton of detail to say
here's all the different things you
could here's how the things work to a
deep level and now here's ways you could
break it, right?" Um, and we just need
we didn't need to go there for this book
because it's been done already. And
um we wanted to go a different route
specifically Jason and and and Brad what
you were saying earlier in the show is
um is getting into that narrative and I
think you know you've se you've talked
about how that evolution has happened
through the line over the last several
years and especially with second edition
when I got my hands on second edition I
really wanted to push into the narrative
even further and I think that's why we
started using the the character um
sidebars introducing each chapter
I think I think having that
conversational tone pulling the reader
in and not just saying here's all this
information, right? It's like someone's
going to guide you through this
information. We're going to talk about
it. We're going to guide you into we're
going to ease you into the topic. Talk
about it in a conversational style, give
you some sidebars that are going to be,
you know, hitting on the topics and and
not overwhelm you with minutia, but give
you tons of ideas. Right? Here's things
that you could do in your game. Here's
things that you can do with your
character. And uh you know fortunately
my writers have embraced that which I
knew they would because we were all
going that we were all going down that
path even when we did the um players
guide and game master guide. I think
really that was the first place where we
really started saying hey we can do more
with this game than what we're doing
with it right now. Let's really start
steering the the Titanic over to the
over to the narrative side of things.
And uh I think you're seeing that I mean
I hope so. Anyway, the technical manual
was really intentional about that. And I
think, you know, a big part of it is you
two guys. Uh, having talked with you two
for a couple years now and and really
really embracing the idea of RPGs RPGs
as literature. That's cool. Um, and
knowing that we wanted to target this
book to casual Star Trek fans as well as
hardcore gamers. like this is an
opportunity for us to show Star Trek
technology in a different way than we've
seen before and and and make
it literary, I guess, for lack of a
better term. Yeah. Every time I This is
another This is another point of entry
to the game. I mean, if someone if
someone doesn't have a core rule book or
captain's log, first edition, whatever,
they may pick up this technical manual,
um, look through it. They'll see some of
the gaming aspects of the book. Um, make
pick up grab the quick start from the
website, whatever the case is. May go
out and even grab the starter set,
whatever the ca whatever the case may
be. But I see when I saw this when I
started looking into it, I just I saw
this as yet another
means of entry to the g to the ecosystem
for folks. Um, you know, and to me,
every time I see that, every time I see
another point of entry to the game,
ingress point, um, Jim, why are you
smiling with ecosystem? Something Brad
said just turned you on about that. No,
I just I I I appreciate that he noticed
it, right? I think I think we're trying
to be very intentional or I mean we
tried to be really intentional even even
way back when we did the um when we did
the uh the Klingon core book, right? We
we knew that was an opportunity to do
two things, right? We wanted to give the
system a little bit of a refresh. We
wanted to to break the Klingon curse and
and we wanted to provide another another
path of entry into the game because I
mean we knew it was a fun game and
people were enjoying it. We just wanted
to get more people into it and like how
do we do that? Corebook, you know, by
default for any RPG, corebook is going
to be your number one gateway uh in so
anytime you can do a new core book
without pissing off your fan base that
you're doing too many additions too
quickly, right? Uh so we did the quick
start for the Klingon book and we did a
quick start which is another you know
point of entry and the core book. So
that was you know immediately when we
decided let's do Cllingon we we created
two instant points of entry by doing a
quick start and a core book. Um and uh
and we did it again with with the uh the
triquarter digest, right? Because that
that triquarter was not only tapping
into the next uh tapping into the
original series fans, but that was
another slight refinement of the rule
set and a complete refresh of the
layout, right? So that was another point
of entry. Um and so um I think
uh but captain's log is another one and
captain's log absolutely was another
another way to get into it. kind of like
a side door. It wasn't back door. It was
like is this is similar to first
edition, but not quite. It's a little
more streamlined. It's a little
hopefully easier to get into, but it's
also here's a ton of information about
the franchise. So, hey, maybe you don't
know anything about Star Trek, but hey,
we're going to we're going to hit you
with 70 pages of uh setting lore right
up front. So, here's a primer on Star
Trek now. Now, you
know, and so we did that. I mean, I I
took that exact same philosophy for
second edition and said, "Okay, we want
to aim this at new gamers in addition to
our hardcore fans, but really we want to
get new gamers because that's the only
way to keep a game alive is to keep
getting new people into it and playing
it and running it." Um, so we did the
quick start and we did the core book and
that's two more points of entry. Um and
then just in the course of talking about
second edition products and knowing what
came up in the first swath of um new
products like we thought okay we should
really try to figure out how do we make
each
product you know a part of the line and
and and a meaningful supplement to the
line but also kind of make it another
path of entry right because like I think
some of our books like why would you buy
it if you weren't playing the game right
Right. Like it's I mean sure it's cool
but like I it I I play the game so why
would I buy the Command Source book? I
mean it's got some cool lore in it but
it's mostly So a free idea for all of
you when Star Trek Starfleet Academy
drops in a couple years new gamers Star
Trek Adventures the drinking game. It'll
sell itself.
Don't. But they have a card game that
you could easily I'm not adding. No, no,
no. You could in theory utilize a card
game. It's going to be Cynthal. It'll be
totally harmless. Um, something we
haven't that we should at least just
acknowledge and it's a it's a big deal
in each of the books, but um but I do
think it's narratively highly relevant
from a writing standpoint. The artwork
in Yeah, the artwork in this one. I
mean, I don't know how you guys keep
doing it, especially Jim, with with what
you're commissioning. And I because I
know you give the your artists a lot of
direction and feedback, but it's even
better than the last one. And and maybe
I'm just reading into it, so you if this
is if this is just blatantly incorrect,
you'll tell me. But the artwork in the
tech
manual felt slightly
more narratively in tune and relevant.
Like like every Okay, good. You guys are
nodding. Like I mean I've like the the
artwork is gorgeous across the books,
right? like every iteration it's it's
it's a little better, but this one like
there wasn't eye candy. It never felt to
me, not even once in the tech manual,
that this is here because it's a good
place for it, but it was appropriate for
that piece of that chapter and helped to
explain it or move it. That's how I read
it. You're nodding. No, absolutely. I
think I'm glad that you caught that. Um,
I don't know that your average gamer
would necessarily pick up on that. I
could be wrong. I mean, I I don't know.
Um, and I think a lot of that in very
very big part is over the last few years
me and my art director Ariel Ariel Orier
um getting more comfortable working
together, getting more familiar with how
we each work and u me continually
learning from him um as far as like who
he is as a person and what he likes to
do and his backstory and all that great
stuff. And um as as I've continued to
work with him, we we have grown to a
point where we both recognize that we're
really it's really important to tell
stories, right? Like I tell my stories
through through pros, he tells his story
through artwork and animation and
illustration. And that's great, right?
Cuz because there there was a learning
curve of us like I want to tell stories.
I want the artwork to tell stories too,
right? And I think we we really one good
example of that is the core book, the
standard edition artwork. Initially that
artwork was just the iconic characters
on a on a field or in that in that
field, right? And and we came to the
realization that okay, we need to have
all these characters in different
uniforms so that we can properly present
the franchise on the cover and not have
them all be in Strange New Worlds
uniforms. We needed to diversity. Um and
then we got the sketch back and I was
like, there's something missing, right?
right? We've got all these iconic
characters on the front cover and all
these different
uniforms. Why? What's the story here?
There's no story. And so Ariel and I
went back and forth and we talked to our
brand guys and we're like, "Okay, we
need a story here though. Even if it's
just a suggestion of a story, why are
all these characters in different
uniforms on the cover of this book? Like
what? Sure, it's marketing, right? And
we're trying to market the fact that but
like let's put that conceit aside.
What's the story here?" And just by
coming up with the idea of putting the
Guardian of Forever on the back cover
with Carl tipping his hand, that at
least suggested, okay, these characters
have been through an adventure, a time
travel adventure of some sort, cuz
clearly they're all coming back to this
one place and they're all in different
uniforms with the technology and they're
trying to figure out what the heck's
going on. I was like, okay. And Ariel
really latched on to that once once we
figured out, let's put the Guardian of
Forever on there. He was like, oh yeah,
we need to be telling more stories with
our artwork. And so he started really
getting more creative with his with his
not that he wasn't already creative. We
got collectively we got even more
creative with the with the corebook
artwork and the toolkit artwork and even
the starter set artwork and part partly
because I had great writers writing the
three parts of the starter set and I
gave them the freedom to write some art
briefs and I know we talked about that
in a different Oh cool. Yeah. Yeah. We
have. Yeah. Um and then going into the
technical manual then I said Ariel keep
doing this right. keep telling stories
and he'd throw, you know, he and I would
be throwing ideas back and forth over
email and and in fact there was one he
said, "Hey Jim, for the for the medical
chapter, can we have a piece of art for
the chapter opener with a character
getting hurt and can we have that same
character in another piece of art later
in the chapter getting a new leg? Can we
tell that little story across?" Oh, I
didn't notice that. And I was like,
"Yeah, let's do it. And let's see if we
can let's see if any fans will pick up
on it." Now, of course, I just told
everybody, but so if you look in the
book, some of the artwork connects to
other pieces of artwork. Definitely. So,
if you're paying attention, you'll
you'll start seeing these little
connections. So, you know, not only are
the sidebars like I had Dayton write a
bunch of sidebars, one sidebar for each
chapter. Read just those sidebars, those
sidebars tell a story. So, there's a
story woven throughout the book, but
also there's little stories woven into
each of the pieces of artwork, too,
including those two pieces in the
medical book because we use the same
characters. um you know showing the
after and um we just want to do more of
that and Ariel is totally on board for
doing that and I think in some of the
other books we've got coming up you'll
see more of that where that's cool a we
wanted a and he even came to me and he
said I think we because you know um
again this is into the sausage making
when you're making a book like this we
can commission so many pieces of art
based on our budget but we need so many
pieces of art more than that for the
book to fill out the layout right So,
we're always reusing certain pieces of
artwork. You know, we may have we may
have like 30 new pieces, but we'll have
to reuse 30 pieces. And that's why you
see pieces of art pop up from time to
time. Um, but in the years that I worked
with Ariel, like he and I were really
really familiar with our body of of work
that was available to us. And he said,
"Jim, we're we're use we're reusing this
art too many times. We've got to get
some fresh art in here." And I'm like,
"Yep, 100%. Totally agree with you.
we're going to figure out a way to
increase the art budget. Um, and he he
really loves the um the slice of life
stuff, right? Like characters hanging
around a briefing room talking 100%.
People hanging out in a cafeteria
talking, people hanging out in a sick
bay talking. That's that stuff is great
because that shows you the reality of an
RPG, right? Right. I mean, sure, you'll
be especially a Star Trek RPG. You'll be
you can certainly do show folks, you
know, doing the phaser fights and the
batliff fights and you can have the
ships doing the pew pew and that's
great, right? That's expected from a
Star Trek game and even a science
fiction RPG. But Star Trek, I mean, has
always been focused on the characters
first, character, character first, and
then all the cool Star Science fiction
stuff second. And so we need to show
these characters doing
stuff in the books. Yeah. That your
characters are likely going to be doing
because like you know I don't know about
your RP RPG sessions but my my main
character have spent a lot of time in
the ready room, a lot of time in sick
bay and a lot of time in the cafeteria
just jawing with other characters. And
you know sure we we spend time on the
bridge but uh I want to see more of
those slice of life things. And I think
we we see it sometimes on the shows,
right? They they sometimes they'll drop
in a little like cold open where the
characters are doing something
completely unrelated to the plot and and
that's the kind of stuff that really
pulls you in. That's what that's where
you get to get some you get the really
cool character bits. Um but I'm going to
stop talking because I know I'm talking
too much and I want I want to hear Allan
Michael's perspectives on this too is
like like I'm glad that you love the
artwork. We're we I just love everything
that Ariel and his team are doing
because like his artists are really
comfortable with this now and that he's
got a good connection with his artists
and you can see that in the in the stuff
that's coming in. Um but like Michael, I
mean just to you I'll ask your question.
I know you are probably the one
freelancer who's most vocal about saying
that you like to go through the books
and pull artwork and then write stories
around that artwork. So maybe talk talk
about that a little bit. Yeah, I think
that's what's really cool is I mean just
the evolution of art briefs again. We
could do entire TV TV shows, sorry,
entire podcast just about the evolution
of the art, but to me, I think that
sparks the imagination. Um, I like one
of the things that was done, you'll see
in the technical manual, but you'll
really see through 2e um throughout is
they really try to even to me even out
the eras that are represented in the um
manuals and the guides. Now, one of the
things I did on our, like anyone who
watches Continuing Conversations and
sees us play the USS Challenger games,
we kind of do a play example for new
players to watch. Um, I was able to go
through and scrape and pull pictures of
all the toos level costumes, SNW
costumes, um, and integrate those into
our game and, and if I can, the whole
picture, can I drop that in as one of
our adventures? So, I think people
should not just view the um art as eye
candy and maybe they should look at it
like, hm, what can I do to enhance my
player experience and integrate some of
this artwork because I know when I throw
up art for my players, they actually do
study it and discuss it and talk about
it and look at the details. Um, and a
picture is worth 10,000 words. So, yeah,
take I I my first purview through the
book before I even read the books is
just going through and looking at the
artwork. Um, and then I then I start
reading the book. But the artwork
definitely stands on its own.
I never thought of of looking at the
artwork in the book and then in effect
generating stories or generating from
that that blows my mind honestly just
using that as as material for world
building in itself um saves a lot of
time that's for sure. Yeah. I mean,
literature in general, I mean, I know we
think of it as like writing that's been
written down, but like there are adult
picture books that tell entire stories
without words, right? Uh, and I think
that like we encapsulate that in a lot
of these images, and I'm glad that you
brought this up, Jason, because I was
about to go into that as well. Uh, and
and I I think it's important to
recognize that, you know, as a lot of
people are afraid to go in and be a GM
because they don't know if they can
create a story to talk people through. I
guarantee you that anyone can look at
one of these pieces of art and tell me a
story about it, right? And that is a
that is literacy, right? That that is
being able to tell a story. Uh, and so I
I I love that we got them in there. I
love that in TUI we've got the the
artist name right there. Uh so that you
know especially if other uh project
managers are looking for artists, they
can jump on board and and help these
these artists out. It shows that we're
you know we're avoiding the AI and all
that stuff. So uh I just think I'm glad
that you brought it up because the art
is just it's breathtaking.
Can I ask if I can ask this is a little
bit of the I won't use my original term.
Let's talk about making the salad
instead of making Yeah. Okay. Um for
Michael and Al because because we we
talked about this early on and Jim,
we've actually talked about this in
episodes with you. Um, Michael, we may
have talked about this a little bit, but
with you working on multiple projects,
this and whatever else may be going on
out there, how do you all, and again,
this this might be too granular for
some, but for me, I find it fascinating
as someone who has to juggle stuff um,
and not always doing it well. Um, how do
you
manage yourself task driven? You know,
manage all these tasks and projects
because, you know, I see, you know, I
see what you're doing on LinkedIn
because we're connected out there. I see
what you're doing on Facebook because
we're connected there. Um, same thing
with you, Al. I I don't know how you
keep up with everything. How do you
manage that kind of how do you do that?
I mean, what are your tools? Yeah. Uh I
mean I live by my calendar so if if
anything if it's not on my calendar it
just doesn't happen. That's that's for
both personal and work. So um yeah even
my wife knows put it on my calendar or I
will surely claim not to have known and
not be prepared for this event
whatsoever. Um so and in addition as a
writer I know how many words I can write
per day. And so that the minute I get an
assignment and I'm told how many word
count, I'm able to look at my calendar
and look at how many days I have or
evenings or mornings to work on it and I
actually block it off on my calendar. So
it sets those goals for me. Um so you
know like right now
um I'm going to say I I don't ignore
what I'm about to say, Jim. I'm at
capacity almost um where I'm at now, but
allow me to turn down the work before
you don't offer it to me. That's all I'm
saying. Um, but I I'm able to look at my
calendar and be like, whoa, if all these
projects have to line up and these are
the deadlines for them, I'm going to be
have having one busy July through
December. So, so I actually put it on my
calendar so I can be realistic because I
never want to disappoint and I want to
beat deadline. That's my goal is to beat
deadline. That gives time for editing or
to cover someone else's work who can't
beat deadline is kind of my goal. So,
that's how I work. So big off live off
the calendar and know how many words I
can pump out each day. Wow. Yeah. I I I
I I go I don't I don't really go day by
day. I plan I plan it out weeks weeks at
a time. So like this week I want I need
to have 2500 words done. Um but daily I
try to find 20 to 30 minutes a day just
to write something um that has to do
with gaming. Uh because that's like my
uh that's my happy time. that that's my
that's you know that's my mental health
time you know um I I'm an educator and
it's a very stressful job and I get a
45minute prep and you better bet that 20
minutes of that I'm going to be writing
something um so maybe even longer when I
can um and and so if I know that
something came up and I had a meeting
that I need to go to or something like
that I just know that I have to make it
up make it up the next day um but yeah
it's it's a a lot of work. I mean,
luckily, it's still fun. It doesn't feel
like a job, right? That, in fact, I've
had probably a dozen kids ask me if I'd
run a Dungeons and Dragons club at the
school, and I specifically say no
because that Dungeons and Dragons or or
gaming in general is my mental health
time, right? I do that to get away from
my job. Uh, and so, uh, I try to make
sure that I have that time every single
day. uh you know 20 to 30 minutes just
to write something. I want to add too
when I don't have anything to write I
love it like actually I'm in a small gap
a very small gap right now and so it
allows me to binge watch profusely. So
like like right now I'm doing my third
watch of for all mankind which I I love
that show and you know my wife agreed to
watch with me this time. So so I do even
when I don't have stuff to write I'm
feeding myself to give myself fuel for
the next writing assignment. If Jason
Jason, if you can tolerate watching
Foundation, which is good, but I but
different than something I would expect
you to normally watch because it's so
far off of what the books were, you need
to watch For All Mankind. Seriously, I I
That's Apple TV, right? Yeah. I I know.
I've been um I've been thinking about
that. I Okay, I But to come back to this
for a sec, kind of a a bit of a closing
question. Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead, Jen.
No, no, go ahead. Go. You You say your
thought and then I'll I'll answer Brad's
question. No, no, you answer because
this is this is going to take us in a
bit of a different direction. So, no,
please answer. Okay. Uh, so yeah, I mean
Brad, we talked about project management
before. Um, as a project manager, I I am
I am driven by by production schedules
and deadline, right? I have X number of
projects on my plate. every one of those
projects has a has a um a waterfall um
schedule that I know when does it have
to be written, when does it have to go
into editing, when does it have to go
into proof reading, when does it have to
go to the licenser, when does it have to
go to layout, yada yada yada, just down
the line and uh when you have five or
six of those, you can see I can see at a
glance, okay, I'm here on this one, I'm
here on this project, I'm here on this
project, I'm here on this project, on
down the road, uh I have to write blog
posts every week. That's another project
that gets a line item. Um, I'm I'm now
the project manager for Fallout. So,
I've got that workload on top of it,
too. So, that's print products and PDF
products. Um, Star Trek, PDF products,
print products, etc., etc. So, I've got
all these different lines, all these
different projects all have overlapping
schedules and all have different
deadlines. You're a pro, you're a
program manager. You're you're called a
project manager, but you really are a
program manager because you've got
within the program are projects. Yeah.
Um, and so you know, my entire life I've
been really good at comp
compartmentalizing and my therapist and
I are working on that, but like I can
compartmentalize really really good and
and that serves me as a project manager
because that means on any given day I
can spend half an hour working on this
PDF and then immediately pivot to half
an hour on this print product to
immediately pivot to half an hour on
this thing and this thing. Oh, and some
crisis just came up on a book three
cycles ago. Now I've got to spend a half
an hour working on that or 10 minutes
working on that. So, you know, I told
you guys this before. I'm like on any
given day, I could touch 15 different
products. And a lot of it's up here, but
a lot of it's also on my schedule,
right? Like I can see at a glance where
I am on any schedule. And uh you know, I
am I am um trying I'm not perfect
because like you know, management may
see this video or may hear this podcast.
I try very hard every week to update my
my um my schedules, partly to cover my
butt in case something goes wrong, but
also just for me to keep track of
everything that's happening. This
person's sick, so his his uh
manuscript's going to be delayed a week.
The graphic artist is on vacation, so
we're going to need another week to do
layout. You know, all these little notes
that I'll probably forget, but if I
write them down somewhere, then I've got
them. Um so, so I use Monday, we use
monday.com at uh at Medifius for most of
our project management and and just
tracking stuff. Uh, in addition to that,
I've got a daybook, right? Every project
manager should have a daybook. This
gives me my day-to-day list of notes and
stuff that I need know I need to get
done. And, uh, now that I've cleaned it,
I've got a sitting standing desk that is
also a whiteboard. And so, I just I just
literally last week I went and bought
myself some new um, dry erase markers.
And so, my day-to-day tasks I write I
write down on my on my on my on my
dayboard on my on my desk. That's nice.
Literally right on my desk saying I need
to do this and this and this today and
then maybe I need to do this and then
maybe I need to do this and now all of a
sudden I got a list of like 10 things
I've got to do today. I may not get them
all today. I I it's somewhere between
daily and weekly is what I'm using the
desk for. Uh but as I get stuff done, I
can just erase it and it's gone and it's
done. So between the between the Monday
board keeping me high level track of
stuff and my day book keeping me track
of like the weekly and the monthly and
then my board that that's how I'm just
keeping all these different things
moving because project managers, program
managers, we're juggling so much stuff.
And if you don't keep track of it,
things are going to fall. And if you
fall if if you let if you know if you
let enough stuff fall then you're going
to be out of work because you can't keep
it up because all of a sudden your
deadlines are going to slip and your
products are going to slip and you know
that causes problems. So it's it's a
combination of uh being somewhere on the
spectrum I'm sure and being able to
compartmentalize and just being focused
on you know hyperfocused on specific
things of specific times and you know
somehow somehow they all get done. Uh
there is a downside to this and I I
think we've talked about this too and
I'm sure we could talk about mental
health on some other uh some other
podcasts but uh I have I have identified
just by talking to some of my peers in
the fiction world uh who are prolific um
I am so compartmentalized and so busy
going from project to project to project
that I do not build in time for me to
appreciate the work that I've done right
like the like my core book my second
mission core book is still sitting here
largely unread except when I have to
reference it for page count or or for
page references or something for the
next book that we're working on. I
haven't been able to stop for seven
years now to just appreciate all this
stuff that we've made over the last
seven years cuz I'm busy making the next
five things, right? So, you know, at
some point, you know, when when we're
done with Star Trek Adventures, I don't
know when that's going to be, by the
way. Um maybe I'll have the time then to
sit back and stop and go, "Oh, yeah,
gosh, that was a really cool book, or
that was a really cool product or
whatever." But so, the downside to being
a project manager for this kind of stuff
is uh you know, maybe there's other
project managers who are better at it
than I am to like build in that time to
just like enjoy the fruits of my labor,
but I'm not there yet. And uh I should
probably be there, but uh um that's just
where I am. No, that's hard to that's
hard to do. It's very hard to do as a as
a as a PM, especially the way you all
the way first of all the way you're
project managing the way with with the
way you all write and with the way the
teams the folks that we've talked with
the folks that we have and we can look
at the authors in any of the books that
um you know that we've we've done with
with STA and I've and I've watched and
you know I've been an STA fan since
since it originally came out and we've
talked about that but um just seeing it
grow over the years. It's just a very
different line in terms of its
production and how it's come out and
everything than other products out
there. And that's not a knock on
anything else. It's just it's just very
different. And I have an affinity for
it. Not just even because it's Star
Trek, but because the way we talk
because we could talk about PM stuff and
and I just the way it it runs. I just I
like I I I feel what you're going
through as a PM as well.
Um, and I love talking to you guys about
the writing stuff because again, as
someone who isn't Yeah. who isn't
necessarily a writer, I love hearing
like when you Michael and when you guys
are talking about calendars and stuff
like that. For some, it's not
necessarily as interesting a topic. For
me, it's fascinating just having to
manage all that. And and obviously,
Michael, we know that there's gaming
stuff you're working on and everything
else. Val, there's there's sentence
you're working on. you know, you had you
came you didn't we we sometime we have
to have talk have you come on and talk
about you know once upon again and
sentence again. We know there's stuff
other stuff that's going on. Um how you
keep up with all of that. Heck I'm I'm
even glancing you see me glance down
because I'm checking stuff because
there's work stuff that's peeking on and
I'm still trying to get used again to
compartment compartmentalizing Jim doing
that off of hours. So, um, as we wrap up
here, just kudos to the kudos to you and
those that that aren't here tonight, but
contributed to such a to the to the
technical manual. Um, before we let you
go, one and let you all relax, one last
question. You're 42.
A fair answer.
So, but we really hit our stride with
episode 47. I digress. So, you're all
distributed, right? I mean, it's 2025.
We're on Zoom, etc. We're like, like
right now, we're talking from wildly
different parts of the country, which is
very cool. Okay, so dream with me for a
moment fictionally, but but hopefully
not someday. So the three of you or
except the three of you or or maybe the
broader writing team for tech manual or
what
whatever it's sometime in the near
future you are and I'm defining you
however you want right however many in
the writing team you all are sitting in
a space
together physically for the first time
you're all around a table somewhere
there. What would you be doing?
And the answer is not playing Ro Shambo.
No. No. What? What? Really? Really?
What? Like like you're all physically
present together, the writing team, face
to face around a table. What would you
be doing or talking about? Hugging and
weeping profusely because we've never
seen each other in person and we've been
waiting for these moments. That's my
initial reaction is just celebrating
personal experience, right? like like
just finally getting to see everyone in
real life and you know I because I I
think through the process that we go
through we we truly become friends right
we because we we rely on each other we
we we help each other out um and you
know to seeing someone on the other side
of a camera is one thing but being there
with them uh I think is just something
completely different. So, it was a very
emotional first couple first first
couple hours for me. And there's also an
intimate trust that's built up. Like I
don't I didn't know these people in
2017, right? And and now like I take
criticism from them. I ask them advice.
I I tell them what I'm working on. We
discuss what I would say business
intimate details like how does it work
you like how does this work for you?
What do you do? Because that that's not
available out there generally. So I
really feel supported by all the people
I've been privileged to work with and I
return the support to them. So that kind
of collegiate, is that the right word?
Collegiate relationship. It you know is
is colleial colleial. Yes. It's
basically is that what it is Jason?
You're the professor. You know the
person giving you a leg up. They're
putting their hands. They're binding you
together and they're letting you put
your you let them put their foot on your
hand. You're going to propel them up,
right? And that kind of business
relationship is rare and especially I
think in our new modern society where we
can be over Zoom and not have ever met
these people and still have that. So if
if you put us all in a room together, we
have a lot of human interaction to um to
make up for that we've lost I think with
with Zoom. Yeah. I think um so first to
answer your question, I would hope we
were either sitting around in a casual
restaurant or or we had like a hotel
suite that we could rent so that we're
just left to our own devices. Maybe not
around a conference room, but like in a
in a suite sitting on some couches with
some with some snacks and some drinks
just just shooting the breeze and and
like connecting in a way that we can't
do on a Zoom. But it probably wouldn't
be a whole lot different than something
like this, this kind of a round table
casual casual environment. And I think
part of that is because we've all worked
on projects together. And it's like, you
know, I'll pull it in theater for a
moment. You know, you work with a very
tight-knit group for a very short period
of time to make a thing. And there's a
lot of creativity and a lot of intensity
and, you know, a lot of push and pull
and sometimes some arguments, sometimes
some some ruffled feathers and but you
all get together and you make it happen
and you're done and you go on to the
next thing and and like you can't build
camaraderie until you've been in the
dirt making a thing. Right now, you
know, fortunately, you know, we're not
digging ditches. We're not saving lives.
We're not, you know, you know, fighting
crime here, right? We're we're making
games, which is super creative and super
awesome. Um, but we're still able to to
gel as a unit and and get stuff done and
and that creates bonds and creates
trust, right? Like I think I trust Al
and I trust Michael and I think I like
to think they trust me. And we've gotten
to a point now where we've worked over
the years that um we are or at least I'm
comfortable calling them out on their
BS. But I also know that they're going
to do the same thing for me. They're
going to say, "Oh, is that the best
idea?" And it's like, "I like this piece
of art, but you could have done this and
this." And it's like, "Oh, god damn it.
Why you why don't you just appreciate
it?" But but no, but they call me on it,
right? And I think that would just
translate right over into a personal
face to face meeting where um you know,
I don't think any of us have a hidden
agenda and we're not we're not trying to
pull one over on each other and it's not
transactional anymore. Not not to say
that it ever was necessarily, but I know
there's that there's there's always that
wiggle bit like I'm a writer and and
they're the editor and I want more work
and I got to get in good with them and
um yeah, I I don't see I don't feel that
from from either of them. Now, now I
almost feel like we're searching for
work for all of each other. we are cool.
Like I think we've expanded into other
genres where it's kind of we're looking
out for each other and even outside of
Star Trek Adventures like hey I know
somebody who could do this and I I think
that's been really nice being able Yeah.
I mean that's even extended to you two,
right? You're part of the family. Um
because like like Brad, you and I have
had some private conversations about
mental health and job searching and all
that stuff and that's been valuable to
me. And Michael, I consider you all I
consider you all friends and you know I
I you know
I it's I whenever you guys come out with
something and and we we've talked about
this. We don't we never ask for any
insidefo. So I get excited whenever a
new product comes out. I like being part
of the public when it comes out. I think
I said off I don't I think I said it
offline. I don't think I said it when
record I was getting a root canal the
day that I heard about the the technical
manual. So it made a a crappy day much
less crappy hearing about it. But like
when you and I were talking about this
when cuz like we both like bought it
instantly and I bought it in the car,
right? Going to the P through the PDF
and it's like at this point it's like
it's not just oh look at what this is,
but it's look at what those guys, those
people made. And it's like we know who's
behind a bunch of this now. And that's
that's super cool. It's like this is
something you all made and we can see
you and hear you and feel you in this
stuff and it makes it better. And I'll
say this sincerely because I don't I
don't feel at this point knowing you all
I have there's no need for me to do any
buttering up or anything like that. We
don't we don't have that type of
friendship. There's two science fiction
franchises in American history that
stand out. Star Trek and Star Wars,
right? Those are the two. There's a lot
of other ones out there, but those are
the two that attract people's attention.
Um, gaming, let's be honest, the Star
Wars gaming franchise is in limbo right
now. We don't know what's going to
happen to it. We just, you know, um, we
don't know what's going on with the
gaming studio. We just don't know. Um,
the Star Trek one is thriving. Um, it's
it's thriving. It's growing. And the
product is is second to none compared to
what to any no disrespect to it, but to
anything that came before it. I'm
excited every time a new product comes
out because we know that it it's I don't
know how I I it just we do know how, but
every time a new product comes out, it's
it's somehow better than the product
that came before. you guys have somehow
found a way, Jim, and and everyone
that's involved have somehow found a way
to improve in some form or another on
the product that came out just before
it. So, um, and again, it's arguably one
of two, if not the number one, you could
argue thanks to Disney, the number one
sci-fi, um, franchise out there and
amongst the American Zeitgeist. So, um,
I'm very thankful for that. um you know
and I'm thankful for all of you guys for
doing what you have done um for these
past years. We hope you do get a chance
to be in that room together. Yeah. And
that Thank you. And I would When is this
airing? Do you know when this podcast is
airing? Yeah. I'll tell you what, as he
does that, I would humbly ask that Dyson
Mind be the
documentarians for that time when that
does occur. Washington DC on fe what if
you're in Washington DC on April what
12th me and Jim are actually having
dinner for the first time together.
Nice. Well done. I'm quite thrilled and
and I can't wait and the whole
restaurant's going to be like what's
wrong with these
guys are you'll bring you're going to
bring some levity and some happiness to
a city that just doesn't seem to have
any these days. Well, my my goal is to
either have a drink or have a meal with
Al cuz you're on a short I haven't I
haven't done that with you yet. Where
are you located again? Uh I'm in New
England. New England. Right on the order
border of New Hampshire and Maine. I'm
going to be in New Hampshire in I'm
going to be in New Hampshire in July
uh for a week plus. We will talk. Yeah.
Have you met Jim in person? Not yet. Not
yet. Oh wow. This is weird. Yeah, we're
working on it though. We're trying to
we're trying to figure out a way to make
it happen. If not this year, maybe next
year. Um but um I mean Jason, Brad, I'm
gonna be back up I'm going to be back up
your neck of the woods in um August and
be up there again in October. Um I think
I'm pretty sure pretty sure October uh
for a weekend and um there there might
be an opportunity to to connect. I'll be
here and I'll be on soatical. So
whatever works for your schedule, I will
make it work. But if it's a weekend and
we'll get Brad up too. Yeah, I will I
will I will make it up and especially
now that um things are settled down down
here. Um there should I should have no
reason not to. But Brad, you said you
said something I wanted to comment on,
and I'm trying to remember what the was.
Um Oh, you you were talking about how
not to be self- serving, but um you were
talking about how the Star Trek books
are are continually
they're iterating in a in a they're
iterating in a positive way, getting
better every time. There's something new
and different% when you added in just
the idea of lit, you know, and reading
them. I mean, yeah. Go ahead. Sorry,
that you know what I'm I appreciate that
you picked that up and that's entirely
intentional because like me personally,
I'm a I'm a lifelong learner. I'm always
trying to iterate myself and trying to
improve myself and trying to learn new
things and and just see what I can, you
know, kick around and and expand my
brain. Um, but also I'm continually
trying to innovate and trying new things
with the game and with the products like
what can we do different? What can we do
better? What can we do what can we push
to make it different? And uh I do that
my writers and to their credit, you
know, Allan, Michael, and Aaron and all
the other ones that I bring on, they're
also constantly learning and and growing
themselves and want to keep pushing the
boundary and keep pushing the envelope
and keep pushing the envelope. So
collectively, and that's why I keep
coming to them, right? Because like they
feed that, right? They're doing it
themselves. They're feeding me to do
that. And collectively, we're all
pushing the boundary. Like what can we
do with Star Trek RPG differently or or
more? How can we continue to push that
that that that envelope? And and and
Brad and Jason, like you both have
mentioned several times on the show how
you've you've seen a progression from
the players guide, the game master guide
on throughout all so you see that
through line that even I can't see
because I can't I'm too close to the
books and because you have to step back
and enjoy and appreciate what you've
done, right? And I can't do that because
I'm on to the next one and I'm on to the
next one. I'm on to the next one.
Someday I'll stop. Someday I'll stop,
but not now. Um anyway, so I I'm just
glad, Brad, that you are so observant
for these kind of things and that you
can uh reflect them. So thank you for
for saying that. Yeah, we love we love
we love the stuff. There isn't a day
that goes by, honestly. I mean, let me
rephrase that. There may be a day, but
there isn't at least actually. Yeah.
Where where we don't talk about the the
series in some way. My
my So I my office So we're doing two my
office is being renovated right now
downstairs. Complete like complete
demolition renovation. It's been going
on since January. Uh a not quite a month
from now. It'll be done. It will be
gorgeous. It will not smell of mold or
humidity. I mean, one dreams of such
things, but it will it will smell of
Jason. I mean, you can't have
everything. So, my office for the past 2
and 1/2 months, and it will be almost
four months when this is done, is in the
dining room in a little nook. That's my
I have a little space. I have my laptop
case, my MacBook, I have a little area
for like the keyboard and my computer
stuff. And then next to it, I have my
STA folder and the starter rule set. And
it's just permanently out there. That's
my entire office right now for like a
third of the A third of the year. So
that anytime I want I can just grab
that, relax, flip through, and it just
gives a nice like I don't my my you know
my wife and my daughter don't even
notice but for me it's like just seeing
the cover every day like just gives a
nice positive push like oh yeah there's
there's
hope. I found I'll I'll say this on
recording as we wrap up. I I have an
office where I'm working now and I don't
think even think I've told Jason this. I
wanted to decorate the office a little
bit so it doesn't look so bare and I put
up two posters that I had that are about
25 years old of Apple think different
posters and I wanted to put up a Star
Trek poster and I have an original
release first contact poster from 98 but
it is and it's wrapped up because I used
to have it up in an office from 20 years
ago but it's it's in too rough a shape
to do that. So now I'm looking at
something that's STA related that I can
maybe blow up into something like poster
sized that I can put up because then
I'll have something computer related,
something game related, and then I have
something for my my hockey team that I
have put up in there. Um that would
generate I'll just Oh, heck, I'll just
send you a swoll poster. Oh, there we
go. That'll be good. Good enough.
That'll be good enough.
It's just for those that don't know
Michael from the waist up. That's just
going to float in that. We'll just let
that We'll just let that simmer. Michael
from the waist up with with an idiotic
around his neck. That's just that's
going to be the whole poster.
Yes. Gentlemen, thank you so much.
Seriously, for uh for indulging us and
coming and just talking as a team. This
was such a treat. Yeah. Thank as always.
Thanks for having us on the show. Love
being here. Love talking to you all.
[Music]
Thanks again to the three to Michael and
Al and Jim for joining us today. That
was um phenomenal. And I'll be quite
honest with you, I I knew it was running
like later for them. Um you know, we
tried our best to keep it within a time
within a within a time space. Yes. Um
and and be cognizant cuz they fully well
know we could keep them for hours.
That's right. So um
Oh, did you hear that? I think the Lon
Cafe is calling us. Shall we head on
over? We should head over.
Maybe I'm going to I'm going to I might
break not a fourth wall, but a wall. You
did travel this weekend to finish or
finalize Oh, yeah. Thanks. Yeah. to prep
for something. Yeah, I uh I went down to
South Carolina to uh spend a weekend
with Dr. Aaron Peterson, right, who's
obviously friend of both of us and has
been on the podcast and whatnot. And um
uh as our listeners may or may not
recall, uh Aaron and I uh wrote uh
Leadership in Star Trek. Mhm. Uh and
uh and uh as you are very well
acquainted since you wrote a chapter for
it, um we we just uh that weekend
submitted the revised full manuscript
for an anthology
uh of essays uh on Star Trek and
leadership to our other publisher and uh
and that's moving along it seems really
nicely. So, that was Yeah, thanks for
asking. That was that was fun. Um, it's
nice to have that uh kind of tucked away
for a little bit. Um, and then Yeah, and
then actually in the middle of all that,
we submitted uh a week or two
ago, two weeks ago now, we submitted the
uh the book where we focus on Pike. So,
it's been a good time. It's been That's
kind of That's kind of That's the true
followup to your first book on
leadership and Star Trek. Yeah, that's
like you said that's focused on Pike,
right? Is that I think you just said
that. Yeah. Yeah, it's focused on Pike
and the role of humility in leadership.
And so we went from from leadership
through TR to humble leadership through
TRE to lots and lots and lots and lots
of perspectives on leadership through
Tre. Um I don't know what's coming next,
but so that's so they're all kind of in
different stages now, but moving along.
you've been doing. I mean, seriously,
and I know there are other there are
other projects out there that that
you've pondered and so on. I you know,
you you are on like a writing kick.
Yeah. Yeah. In some form or another, you
know, you know, I I fell in love with it
some I mean, years ago now and and you
know, you get the bug and and it's just
such a joy. I mean, I I really truly do
enjoy I love writing research and theory
articles. It's like I I do, but but book
and chapter writing, especially book
writing, especially if it's your own,
that's a different kind of freedom.
Yeah. Yeah. So, what's what's on your uh
what's on your desk or shelf? Well,
sorry, I I digressed. What be beyond
beyond all of that, are you reading or
doing anything like gaming or RPG
related? Yes, sort of. So, it's not uh
and this won't surprise you cuz I had
sent you photos today. It's not what's
on my shelf. It's that I'm soon to have
my shelves back. Yes. So, as of the end
of this
afternoon, my home office is more than
99% done. Uh there is a return vent
plate and an electrical plate that still
need to be
reattached and then the office is done.
Okay. And um when's the ETA on that?
Uh right now the right now um the final
walkthrough of the contractor is still
scheduled for 11 days from now. Okay. So
I um I can't put anything back in there
yet because of that walkthrough. It's
like like there are you know it's that
and the bathroom downstairs. There's
still active spaces that the bathroom
still has a bit left to go. It's almost
done. Um, but so like little areas of
touchup, you know that you've been
through this like with your kitchen,
like little things like, okay, this is
scuffed, this is chipped, whatever. And
so as badly as I want, cuz like I mean,
you know, now like you know what my
office was like before and I loved it.
Loved it. I loved it. I It was I loved
that, you know. I Thank you. I It was
truly my happy place. Truly my happy
place. But now it's got this big window,
this big eress window and plush
carpeting. And I'm waiting for you to
put a fountain in there in case you need
to sleep in there cuz you're going to be
like, "Oh, this is my happy place."
Seriously. Well, and and Amy Amy's like,
you know, now that you're going to have
some some space, um you should think
about putting like a futon or something
in there. Um so yeah. Well, we'll see. I
don't I don't think I don't I was I was
joking. I don't think you need to do
that. I think you really are you really
gaining space. I actually lost 3 in in
along the two outer walls because of
leaving jokes out of it, right? Because
of the framing and the insulation, but
you can't tell. So, so functionally, no,
I'm not losing any space. The way
because cuz I was saying that once you
start putting things back, obviously you
might maneuver or do things. The way you
had it set up originally was pretty
good. Yeah. Most of the furniture is
going back, but the egress window
because it goes down to like like
midrift or not mid, but like like chest.
You had a table. You had a table below
that. My workstation is still going to
be the same. That was all thought out.
And the placement they put heaters back
in. So like I had to run them today so I
could burn off the oil because they're
new. And and other than setting off the
fire detector every 5 minutes, um I had
it set to 65 in there with the window
open and it was warm.
And if you recall my Is it warm up there
today? No, my office was freezing
before. Uh so to have a working heater
and insulation is incredible. So, um,
no, the the furniture will largely go
back, except I'm going to make some
changes like the stereo, like all
non-book things are coming off of the
bookshelf. Uh, so we talked about this
stereo is going to be against the other
wall. Receiver is going to be and
turntable are going to be up on a
bookshelf against the other wall like
you had suggested. Speakers on the
floor. So, but the chairs, the desk, all
of that's going to go back. Yeah. Yeah.
So, and how's the and and Mirror and I
checked to to so my younger daughter
checked tonight when because she just
came home from a week away for spring
break with her uh with her uncle um and
cousins, but uh we checked and the the
painters not only did they enamel the
bookshelf, but they put back all of the
shelves and they spaced them
beautifully. So all of the shelves uh
like I don't even have to readjust now
for all my RPG stuff if I want. Oh,
they're back in the right spaces. So you
have they they did the height in a way
that accommodates everything. So, so
although I might just dedicate a
separate shelf right on the other wall
to RPG, but either way, I'm I'm not even
two weeks away from moving back into the
office and then all of the RPG stuff is
back out and loving it. Oh, that'll be
nice. What are you reading or what's on
your desk? Well, I think I I I uh um I
somewhat mentioned this in the in in our
future guests, but I'm so it I'm I'm
this is going to be like a time shift
type of thing. But um in the
um yesterday
um a package came from Odifius with
um the Fallout RPG.
Oh yeah.
um they had a um a spring sale on and I
had
um credit that I had available so I
picked up a couple items related to it.
It's been very hard to find. They they
had run out of print on a lot of stuff
really on it for a long time. It wasn't
available. I mean it's a good sign.
Yeah. Um it's very popular. I or or it
it must have been or it's just been out
of print a while. I really hadn't
followed it all that much. Yeah.
Um and um so I picked up the core rule
book and the starter set. Oo. Have you
had time to look through them? I have
not. Um that's going to be a weekend
task. But um I showed it to my son who
has played all the video games and has
watched the the TV series. Um Oh, okay.
And I have I had started to watch the TV
series um toward the end of last year
and then paused it once work started and
and once I was once I was in the
interview process and everything else
and I just I just didn't want
distraction. Yep. Um but I did last
night um pick up the PDF of the
television characters
um on the Modifia site.
um because he looked at the I showed him
the core the core rule book and um he
opened it up and he was paging through
it and then he walked away with the core
rule book. Um he was just paging through
it and then he just kind of turned and
walked away and I'm like he just took my
core rule book. Um and I'm like cool.
Um, and he came back a little bit later
and he goes, "I think I'd like to play
this." Okay. Um, nice.
Um, so perhaps in the future, um, I'm
going to I'm going to see I'm going to
see,
um, because he's extraordinarily busy
right now. You know, he's just coming
off of being sick. Yeah. Um, you know,
he's got school. He's he's still in
school for another, you know, almost two
months. I'm not going to introduce
another variable right now. No. Um, so
it'll be a summer thing. Plus, you know,
I'm I am the other thing I'm I'll tell
you about the other thing I'm working on
related to games, which is our thing.
Um, but maybe this summer. Um, and I
want to learn about it. But, um, I'll
tell you the material is very cool. And
the other reason I I picked it up is
because there we have another connection
to the Fallout RPG is because true our
friend Jim Johnson now is the project
manager for Yes, he is. Y so um a lot of
the m the material as it stands now
doesn't have his his um Right. Right.
He's on the news newer stuff. Yeah. Mhm.
But
um but that's that's been it be that and
um um I I haven't dug in to look at it
because um the two things that have
taken up my time are gersps and
um misborn. Yeah. Yeah. So I finally
started to read Stormlight. Mistorn. Oh.
So are you reading? I have I have both.
You do? Okay. Oh, good for you. And um I
started with Misttor because that's the
one that you read. I was going to start
with Stormlight. Yeah. But then because
you had read Misborn. Okay. Um I figured
I'd read that one first and it's a much
more accessible shorter novel. Yeah. And
I figured then we can have a
conversation about How far in are you?
Just just about 50 60 pages. Okay. So,
cuz I just started it a couple days ago.
Oh, I'm looking forward to talking about
that with you. The the the hard magic
and as um I'll just say they don't he
doesn't explain everything, but by the
end of the novel, he explains a ton of
what you're encountering up front, and
it just gets more and more interesting.
Yeah. And I I I started reading it in
anticipation of a future
from from the time people are listening
to this, a future interview. So,
so on that note, but but yeah, I mean
it's I I'm I'm settling in now where I
can start to
enjoy some of the stuff. And I've been
wanting I've been wanting to do
something RPG related that was just a
little different.
Um, you know, and that's why Fallout
kind of caught my attention. That's it.
So, and it's and and I don't know if
you've ever dug into and I mean I still
got the Warhammer stuff sitting out
there and all that, but Fallout the
Fallout universe is I I watched the
first
at least the first couple episodes.
Yeah. And I just I had a hard time
getting into it. Yeah. I liked it, but
the TV show you're either going to like
it or you don't. Yeah, I I played the
original video games years ago back in
the 90s when they first came out. Um,
so I remember those. Um, you know, the
video the the TV show is different than
I remember. But but fun. Yeah. But fun.
Yeah. Um, Trent played them. My son
played them um too. So, um, but yeah, it
I just I don't know yet how truly the
the the RPG will will play, but he
seemed he seemed interested. And it's
funny how it's, you know, it is licensed
from Bethesda, the the developer of the
game. The artwork is all Fallout. It's
just really well done. I'm looking
forward to seeing that. We'll have to
talk more about that. Yeah. So, all
right. Well, you all know the deal.
Thanks so much as always for being with
us. Um, hope you enjoyed this episode's
chat. We did big time. And um, uh, I I
know I know everybody that Brad and I
say this almost every end of episode,
but seriously people, we have some
really really interesting episodes uh,
scheduled and a bunch of them recorded.
uh taking us straight into the summer.
So stay tuned. But in the meantime, be
well, stay well. We will see you in a
couple weeks.
[Music]
