[Music]
Welcome to Dyson Mind, a podcast hosted
by Brad Brown and Jason Kaufman to
explore the intersection of life, games,
science, science, music, philosophy, and
creativity through interviews with
leading creatives. All are welcome in
this space.
[Music]
I've gotten used to, actually, let me
rephrase that. Um, over 30 years, um,
>> here it comes.
>> I've really never
No, I'm gonna try that one more time.
Very rarely, very rarely do I feel
um
inferior when having conversations with
you. Um
>> even even Well, no, no, there are a lot
of topics where I mean there's a lot of
topics where you have you you're you're
you have an educational background and
everything like that in areas that that
obviously um you know, psychology,
leadership areas where where you've done
enormous amounts of research and study
and things like that. This really was
starting to be a joke, but now it became
serious.
>> Yeah, you're really
>> This really back This really backfired.
>> It's already hilarious.
>> Oh, really? Sorry. Um well well
ultimately point you know my point being
is is that is that our guest here this
is this is a gentleman where when we get
him on here I'm just I'm almost a little
bit starruck whenever we when we when we
had him on the last time just because of
just how intelligent he is and and
um in talking about his background and
his expertise
and um the stories he had on his
research and his history and everything
like that. So yeah,
>> when you had mentioned um
>> an article that had been in nature and
had reached out to see if he would join
us again,
>> um I was actually excited again. And
then I then, you know, I had to like
>> I had to do a little bit of research
just to make sure that I didn't sound
like I used the term before we hit
record to sound so I didn't sound like a
complete ignoramus. Yes. um when so that
when he joins us here shortly um I can
actually contribute at least a little
bit to the conversation. So
>> well that's that's fair. Um no I I hear
you. So uh to demystify this for
everyone else. We uh are welcoming
returning guest Dr. Michael Wong to
Dyson Mind. Uh Mike's been kind enough
to chat with us before about um about
writing, about his research, about about
astrobiology and planetary science, you
know, all topics we love and are very
adjacent to many of the games we love.
Uh I agree. I mean, I've been fortunate
to write a little bit to do a little bit
of research, but I am as an academic a
complete poser compared to someone like
Mike who's really quite the Renaissance
man. And so Mike uh and his his
colleagues uh published a paper in
nature as you said this this past July
>> and uh for those of you listening who
aren't familiar with nature nature is
one of the major scientific journals on
the planet. It's it's it's easily in the
top four. Easily. And so getting
anything in there is a big deal. But
that not in and of itself.
>> You don't have to be I mean I'm not
>> Yeah,
>> I'm not a scientist. I'm I live in a
different world and I know
>> that nature's
but a lot of people don't. But but a lot
of people I mean you're knowledgeable. A
lot of people would have no way of
knowing that. But we want to make the
point that this was in nature. Now
nature as a journal that in and of
itself does not impress me. What
impresses me is that Mike and his team
published an article titled How to Chart
a Moral Future for Space Exploration.
And I thought, okay, that's so
wonderfully adjacent to many of the
games we love to think about playing.
And to
>> as I look at my shelf, Traveler
or shelves of Traveler,
>> Traveler, Star Trek, Star Wars,
what else? paranoia.
Uh I mean the list goes on on and on. Um
uh uh yeah, modern age. I mean it's a
long list people. But but this is so so
interesting. And because it's so um that
article was so relevant to some of my
own scholarship, I thought, okay, this
would be fun to talk about with Mike.
But it would be really neat through the
lens of science fiction because Mike is
wonderfully steeped in sci-fi. through
the lens of science fiction and how that
is adjacent to role playing games,
sci-fi role playing games even and
especially rights is lit. It would be
neat to talk about this with him. Um now
uh the article is behind a firewall or a
payw wall I should say with nature cuz
that's just how they roll. Um but but if
you can get your hands on it, it's it's
worth reading. It's really quite
aerodite. It's very philosophically
sound, but it's neat. It's really cool.
I think that in 2025 when so many
problems have beset the world,
especially the United States, that there
are people publishing really neat ideas,
putting ethics and forethought first,
not just about what should we do here
now at home, but okay, uh, as humanity
inevitably moves out into the solar
system and beyond, you know, how do we
want to do it?
I just like the fact that people are
still thinking about a moral future,
especially these days. I hate and
without getting into politics, let's
just leave it at that. But
>> maybe we'll do better with the next
planet.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Um Yeah. I said that a
little too
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. Um but yeah, I So, you know, I
think you know, it's been a while. I
can't remember the la I can't remember
and I don't have it up when we had Mike
on the last time, but um or when you
visited Mike's podcast. I know you were
on his podcast.
>> Well, I mean we had we had Mike not so
long ago. Um I mean that's the that's
the funny thing. So, you know, he's been
on um well well we we had Okay, so we
had my gun and then we played a a rerun
uh of our talk with him and that was
just this past July. But last time we
actually had him on, right, was was a
couple years ago actually,
>> right? And I've been on his podcast once
before and that was a lot of fun. But um
no, but so it's bringing him back and
bringing him back for this kind of
reason. This is this is pretty neat to
see thinking like this, you know, you
don't have to be a scientist. You don't
have to be a scholar. You don't have to
have any interest in research. which I
don't know why you wouldn't, but you
don't have to to appreciate this is
relevant to a lot of the games we play,
a lot of the things that many of us who
are involved with RPGs directly or
indirectly talk about and think about.
And so to see it like percolate into
circles where maybe this can affect
policy, maybe this can affect the
future, that's really neat.
>> Yeah, absolutely it does.
[Music]
Dr. Michael Wong is an NHFP Sean
post-doal fellow at Carnegie Scienc's
Earth and Planets Laboratory working
with Robert M. Hazen and others. His
primary scientific interests are
planetary atmospheres, habitability, bio
signatures, and the emergence of life.
He is also co-authoring a revised
edition of the textbook astrobiology and
multidisciplinary approach with
professor Jonathan Lunine. His other
passions include photography, writing,
public speaking, graphic design, and
playing a variety of team sports. He
hosts a podcast called Strange New
Worlds, which examines science,
technology, and culture through the lens
of Star Trek.
[Music]
All right. Well, Mike, thanks so much
for coming back. Um, we know we want to
talk to you, but how you doing?
>> Uh, I'm so good. I'm really pleased to
be back on the podcast. It's good to see
you again, Jason and Brad.
>> Yeah. No, thank you. So good to see you.
So,
>> it's been it's been way too long. We
should have had you on earlier, so we
apologize for that.
>> Yeah. Thanks for being our most recent
rerun as well.
>> Yeah, sure. Yeah, of course.
>> We know we went back through and and we
just didn't have that. That was what
early midsummer Brad um we were both
busy. I was traveling and it was like,
okay, so what what can we run in a pinch
that we really enjoyed and that had a
lot of listeners? was like, "Oh, we
know." Um, so, so Mike, I keep seeing
you on PBS, which I got to say, wow. Um,
I I'm really I got to say I'm really I'm
really impressed. Like, you keep popping
up in all of these pop and public
science venues.
>> Um, so, so I obviously you've got at
least two different career paths you
could choose here, but that's that's not
why we we brought you on. So, this is a
little a little actually this is fairly
adjacent for for Dyson Mine, but you
know, like you've been on before and you
know, we we like to riff about stuff and
we're big into RPGs and sci-fi and all
that as lit, but once in a while we like
to dabble on the sides and uh I saw your
paper in nature,
>> right, with your colleagues on how to
chart a moral future for space
exploration.
>> And I thought, yeah, I mean, look at the
grin. I thought, okay, like like we know
that like we know that you are this
rarity of really a Renaissance man or a
Renaissance individual, right? you look
at your at your corpus of scholarship,
both journals and beyond, and it's like
you're a really dynamic thinker, but
this one really caught our attention and
and beyond just being a fun read and
really interesting. You know, so much of
what we talk about on the podcast is
relevant to or informed by not just Star
Trek, of course, or Star Wars or
fantasy, but like sci-fi themes and
tropes. And so seeing what I think is
easily one of the first papers out there
arguing for ethics
in space exploration,
right? Uh a very I mean it's a it's a
quick paper, not a quick read. It's a
short paper, but but it's quite
comprehensive in terms of the scope you
all went after. And and it's not a
policy paper. It's legitimately a
philosophical paper which I read in the
hopes of informing policy and that stood
out, right? So, we just want to ask you
about it cuz this is fascinating and I
think just exceptionally relevant to a
lot of the other stuff we talk about and
we riff about whether it's on the
podcast or not.
>> Sure. I'm I'm so glad you brought me on
to talk about this paper. Um, first of
all, um, I just want to say thank you
for, you know, all your kind words. Um,
the only reason why I pop up on PBS
every once in a while is because I work
with Bob Hayen, who has had a long
career of both doing cutting edge
science and also being an incredible
science communicator. And he was on the
board of PBS Nova for many years and is
really in steeped in that community. And
I'm I'm so lucky to be his colleague and
to get tapped on the shoulder every once
in a while to appear on a documentary.
Um, and you know, there there there will
be more of that coming out. So uh stay
tuned. Um and then you know with the
with this philosophical paper about the
ethical treatment of outer space
phenomena it once again is really just a
credit to the amazing colleagues that I
have. Um this time in particular Chelsea
Haria, Emily Laflash and Julia Darinis.
uh we all sort of coalesed at a
conference um 2023 May 2023 we were all
at believe it or not a small niche
conference about oxygen in planetary
biospheres. So, you know, oxygen is one
of those molecules that only exists in a
great abundance in our atmosphere
because of photosynthetic life. And so,
we think that it might be a good bio
signature on worlds afar. And so, we
there was a dedicated conference just
about that topic. And the amazing thing
about astrobiology is that it invites so
many different voices to the table
because in order to understand oxygen
and planetary biospheres, you have to
understand something about chemistry,
about atmospheric dynamics, about
geology, about biology, um about star
planet interactions, about how to
observe using a telescope. So astronomy,
these gases and exoplanet atmospheres,
and then also for some reason that was
unapparent to me at the time,
philosophers as well. That's
>> And so, um, I was I was so struck that
there would even be an ethicist at this
meeting. And the great thing about small
meetings is that you get to know the
people there. You get to have lunches
with them. And and at at some point, I
think Emily just turned to me and said,
"We have to write a paper with Chelsea
and and and Julia." And and so we we you
know, so um I believe Chelsea gave a
talk at the meeting about the ethics of
of SETI um and Medi. So the the ethics
of searching for extraterrestrial
intelligence and messaging
extraterrestrial intelligence, you know,
the kind of communication that we see in
Star Trek and Star Wars all the time.
But I think less thought has gone into
the ethics of exploring planetary
environments with microbial life. You
know what what happens when you find
microbial life on Mars or Europa or
Enceladus? what happens? How do you
choose to treat an environment even if
it doesn't have any life whatsoever? Um,
is it still intrinsically valuable? And
so we decided to, you know, get together
and have Zoom meetings once every couple
of weeks for the past couple of years
and that turned into the paper that you
all read and enjoyed and um I'm just so
happy that we get to discuss it today.
>> Yeah. I got to ask a quick question. um
as someone who's you know in some of
these adjacent fields you writing this
paper great publishing this paper even
better but this is a philosophical paper
that's a little bit out there which I
love you got it in nature
>> how did you land that was that was was
that a hard cell during the review
process
>> that was so um but again just I think a
confluence of a lot of luck so for
audience audience members who aren't in
academia or science. Nature is one of
the most prestigious scientific journals
out there.
>> And it just so happened that um a former
like labmate of ours here at Carnegie
instead of going into you know
continuing along being a scientist chose
a career in editing for a nature
journal. And so through her I got
plugged into sort of the nature nature
community and was invited to give a talk
to uh a bunch of nature editors. So um
you know these are talks that uh they
invite because they want to get sort of
like what they want to know what the
most exciting research is in a
particular field. And so I was lucky
enough to be tapped on the shoulder to
just give a talk about what I think is
the most exciting in terms of
astrobiology. And of course at the end
of the talk I spoke about for 10 minutes
about a paper that we uh at that time
were were still drafting about
astrobiology ethics. And I thought that
this is one of the um key frontiers in
terms of uh thinking about how we
approach space exploration and even
advancing ethical knowledge through the
act of imagining how we would treat
extraterrestrial life. And that out of
all the things that I talked about for
that entire hour was the thing that they
were like, "Oh, pitch us a paper about
that please." Um, so, so it was actually
invited. It was it was I was first
invited to give a talk and then the
editor reached out to me and said,
"Would you like to publish your paper in
nature?" And I said, "Of of course."
>> So, so that's how that uh came to pass.
>> That's really cool. Thanks. Thanks for
sharing that openly. I think yeah, like
you said, a lot I mean most of our
listeners, well, we're we're assuming
here, but most of our listeners, they're
not familiar with the joys of the peer
review process. Um, uh, but but that
said, um, I think it's always helpful
to, well, Brad, you would call it how
the sausage is made, but I think it's
always helpful to hear about that back
end of the processes of any of our
successes because it demystifies that it
matters. That's cool. Well, I think I
don't think people understand that that
you you are pitched to write, you
research, you write. That's not the end
of it. I mean, for like, you know, I
come from the business world, you know,
there is a whole process after you
write, like you said, the peer review
process now. I've been through this
writing for Jason that, you know,
writing for and so that was my first
real experience coming from the business
world where writing for an writing for
an academic book. um you know that is a
whole another step to the process that
is a tough piece and for those who
haven't done it before
um this is you know like I said Jason
says I use the term in the business
world how the sausage is made that is
lot that is a lot of effort um and to to
get it into nature I don't think people
are necessarily going to realize the
amount of effort that it takes to do
that and even for someone who is very
very adjacent. I I know I know what what
nature is in terms of I mean that's like
the kind of like the Harvard Business
Review of of of the science worlds. So
>> um it's very impressive to do that. if
you don't mind just for I'm going to I'm
going to ask a very remedial question
just for the folks that don't
necessarily understand that um and I
apologize for it but from a peer review
perspective when you're doing something
in nature when you're publishing
something for nature what was the peer
review process like for that
>> good question so this was a nature
comment article so it was in sort of the
front matter of the the physical
journal and um and so for those articles
because they're not really a scientific
study, you know, with like data that
needs to be presented and then argued,
the interpretation needs to be argued
for. It wasn't peer-reviewed by other
scientists. It went through an editorial
process with the editors of Nature. And
so they had a lot of comments about you
know the the way to present these
arguments and uh did a we we did went
through several different drafts and uh
you know our group has been discussing a
lot of different principles of
astrobiology ethics and the paper that
we initially submitted after we were
invited to to put something into nature
was quite a bit different in topic
actually than what eventually came out
because for one of these commentary
articles what they said was um it should
be there to provoke further discussion.
So you want to put out a bold idea and
you want to defend that idea, but you
want to just leave it out there for
everybody to sort of discuss and
continue that discussion. And so
initially we had a lot of, you know,
we've got philosophers on our team,
right? Philosophers are often very
careful about their words and also very
uh careful about developing their
thoughts uh in in very you know to be
honest long- winded kinds of uh uh
treatises because they like to present
an argument from somebody else, spend a
lot of time tearing that apart and then
present their argument and how it solves
all of the things that were wrong that
was wrong with the with the previous
argument. We couldn't do that in a 2000
to 3000 nature comment. And so what we
did was we just threw our ideas out
there for an updated uh and more
expansive taxonomy of moral value in the
cosmos. Gave examples of what those
things might look like. And then a few
quick recommendations for the community
like um you know that scientists and
philosophers should work together more
and it should be encouraged within
academic uh disciplines to to uh to have
that kind of interdisciplinary
collaboration and um and that space
agencies especially should embed more
philos philosophical and ethical thought
into uh their practices.
>> Okay. So toward that end let me just let
me just read a few sentences. I'm I'm
hopping around here. I'm just going to
pull out the ones and this is perfect.
Thanks for teeing me up like this so
well. Um, but the ones that stood out
toward the end to your to your point
here so that everyone can hear this.
It's just it's really I mean I'm
literally I'm not paraphrasing this is
verbatim but just a few lines that stood
out to me toward the end to your point
and I quote, "But decisions must be made
with ethical goals operating alongside
scientific, commercial, and political
goals so that the societal and ethical
implications of research can keep up
with the pace of discovery." Love this
part. philosophical specialists should
be embedded long-term with active
scientists and interdisciplinary teams.
And then the the closing which I love,
working together across the sciences and
the humanities, we hope to pave the way
to a future full of not just discovery
but also prosperity based on sound moral
principles, which is so lovely, Mike.
And you know for those for those not
versed in environmental ethics or
environmental policy or commercial space
law and all that like especially that
last closing sentence what do you embed
there? What do you hint at there is
there's a lot there and it is
provocative and hopefully it will
generate a lot of discussion.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I think with that last
sentence um I want because we're
speaking mostly to a scientific
readership here, right? We're publishing
in nature. So scientists are going to
read this. Scientists obviously have
their goals and the things that they
value. Scientific discovery, making new
breakthroughs, learning more about the
universe. Other people in space
exploration, especially on the
commercial and the political side, have
different goals. they want to, I don't
know, make money or get famous or land
on Mars and build some kind of
settlement or uh advance national
interests, things like that. And with
this article, especially toward the end,
what we wanted to say is in addition to
all of those things that we worry about
when we decide how to act in outer
space, we should also choose to promote
ethical values as well. and scientists,
politicians, and commercial enterprises
may not without a little bit of nudging
choose to prioritize ethical values in
addition to scientific value, national
prestige, um, commercial output, etc.
And so that's the kind of thing that we
want to highlight here with this is that
if we don't pay attention to scholarly
research and invite the voices from the
humanities, from philosophy, from
ethics, then we're almost certain to
fail in terms of um uh promoting uh and
choosing to optimize for ethical value
in concert with all of these other
things that we want to glean from outer
space exploration.
Can I ask just again I'm the I'm the
super adjacent guy of the of the three
of us here. Um
you know in terms of this type of
discussion
um and Jason knows this. I'm big into
ethics and compassion and empathy you
know and interjecting that into areas
like in the business world where it it
without commentary is severely lacking.
Um, you know, did you know we've you
talked about this a little bit, but is
this topic something that
is this paper something that really has
kind of been um kind of a a trailblazer
in terms of a discussion topic? you
know, have you has this really been
something that hasn't really been fully
discussed before or really at the
forefront of discussion, you know, in
terms of tra space travel and
everything. Do you feel like you've kind
of like opened a door? And I'm not
trying to like um
I'm not trying to make you like toot
your own horn or anything like that, but
I'm just trying to, you know, be very
transparent and say it feels like you
have you have really like by posting by
putting this in nature
>> um really opened a door for something
that really hasn't really been talked
about fully.
>> Yeah. Well, I think you know that is up
to the rest of the community to decide.
It's not something that um you know I I
can speak to immediately right now. I I
know folks have are interested in you
know having us speak you know this you
know coming on this podcast for instance
to talk about the paper or go to
conferences to speak about these types
of things or give seminars about it. Um
I think one like the the ethical
treatment of outer space phenomena is
not a new subject that we you know just
brought up out of the blue with this
paper earlier this year. Um but I think
we do try to do something new in terms
of uh promoting this expansive taxonomy
of moral value in outer space. A lot of
previous thought has gone into trying to
figure out, okay, is a microbe on Mars
intrinsically valuable. Like there's
there's this long-standing um debate and
philosophy about what entities, what
objects, what systems are intrinsically
valuable, which means valuable in and of
themselves existing just for their own
sake versus a kind of value called
instrumental value, which means it is
valuable because it does something for
something else. So a great example of
something that's only instrumentally
valuable is money all by itself. You
know, a dollar bill doesn't have any
value. It only gains its value because
it is used in humanto human exchanges.
Whereas a human is definitely
intrinsically valuable. Just being
itself is, you know, a source of value.
And so we see this sort of like
dichotomy uh between things with
intrinsic value and things that that
don't have intrinsic value in like a lot
of classic thought. And and so people
have debated, oh, you know, where should
we draw the line between things with
intrinsic value and things without, you
know, some people might draw the line at
life? You know, anything like a
bacterium and up sort of has intrinsic
value. Other people might slide it all
the way up to like humans because of our
seemingly unique capacities for rational
thought and um you know, intelligence,
whatever that means, and and sociality.
But I think no matter where you decide
to draw this line, you're operating on
sort of like a very one-dimensional
hierarchy of moral value. But I don't
know if that's necessarily the way the
universe is put together with just like
one sliding scale. Instead, there may be
many different kinds of attributes that
can uh contribute to a systems moral
value. And so that's what we try to
advocate here through our new taxonomy
that includes things like relational
value and systemic value and uniqueness,
things that um you know in previous
writing may have been alluded to, but we
try to really nail it down here in this
in this taxonomy that we promote.
And through that lens that allows you to
see how very different entities can have
moral value for different reasons. And
so in our paper, you know, we've got
this we've got this quote about how it's
uh you know, often in planetary science
people will say like Mars is a failed
planet. Why do we think Mars is a failed
planet? Well, it's because it doesn't
have certain attributes that Earth has
like plate tectonics, active geological
cycles, an ocean, a thick atmosphere,
and of course a biosphere that is uh at
play on its surface. But you know,
seeing what is special about Earth is
one thing, but then concluding that just
because Earth is special um in certain
ways means that it is the only special
thing out there is we think a mistake.
And so just as we don't condemn Earth
for failing to be a gas giant or a star,
we shouldn't condemn a gas giant or a
star or Mars for failing to be like
Earth. you know, they they can have
their own moral value, their own
richness in different ways from the way
that our planet and our um life on our
planet exhibits moral value.
>> Okay. So, I I want to move us in a
direct in a moment in a direction of
just riffing for some fun for, you know,
kind of looking at the future maybe
maybe just asking together playing with
what if. But, but before I do that,
because you ju you went to Mars, so I
have to I have to ask this.
I remember here's my here's my
contextualization for this for picking
your brain about this. I remember
I want to say it was 97 don't quote I
think it was about 97 um you were
younger Mike but I remember in 97 very
clearly and readil too that uh I think
that was when the Allen Hills meteorite
papers came out. I'm pretty sure it was
97 I I was
>> 96 96
>> it was 96. Okay. I thought I was wrong
about that. Okay. I had I had literally
just started grad school. I had like I
had graduated a couple months before I
was taking my first grad class to get
into my masters. Okay. So it right it
was a transitional time. So okay great
96 even even even when you were younger.
Um and you know that that that meteorite
the the findings which were I mean
obviously really questionable, right?
Like how do you how do you really
with any certainty agree that there's
life anywhere else when it's technically
indirect? But whatever it was a
remarkable
set of findings no matter what whether
we found life or not it was a remarkable
set of findings. Um, you know, President
Clinton at the time spoke about it from
the Rose Garden. And I remember driving
around Milwaukee.
This is a danceless Brad, but I remember
driving around Milwaukee listening to
this on on on uh Wisconsin Public Radio
as I was like heading to class like my
god like like I don't want to get my
hopes up. Okay. And you know, most of
the evidence in, you know, a couple
decades of hindsight, oh my god, in a
few decades of hindsight suggests, wow,
suggests that, okay, that could have
been it. It probably wasn't, but it
could have been. We who knows. But as
we're recording, and especially since
we're doing this backwards, so this
episode's going to drop tomorrow
anyways. So, as we're recording,
um, another paper just came out. I
haven't read it yet. Maybe you have,
maybe you haven't. um with a lot
stronger evidence that there there might
have been microbial ancient we should
say microbial life on Mars. Something
that obviously everyone's been wondering
about. Um as a psychologist I can have
thoughts just as a generalist scientist
if you will. You just happen to be an
astrobiologist, right? So So I'm just
cur before we kind of riff about the
future and maybe where this stuff will
go. I'm curious if we can get your hot
take if you will. Um, and I'm not not
asking you like to put this down on
paper like, oh, see, we're going to come
back in 5 years and tell you you were
right or wrong, but like what's your
sense right now from the evidence? Do
you have one?
>> Yeah. So, that's such a good question.
Wow.
We're closing in on 30 years since the
um Allen Hills meteorite discovery. Uh,
you know, with the uh yeah, the the
possible forms of microbial life on
Mars. And just just to touch on that
before getting to the more recent stuff.
Yeah. I I remember um like my mom
showing me uh discovery in the
newspaper. Yeah. I was like, "Oh my
god." Like actually that was one of the
things that I it was one of the first
times I remember thinking that space was
really cool and that that was something
I wanted to do. Um and uh and I feel
like that that in addition to Star Trek
was a catalyst for for my and it was
honestly talking to people in the field
now a catalyst for the entire field of
astrobiology. So even though most
astrobiologists today would say that
that meteorite does not actually contain
evidence of past life on Mars, it
drummed up so much excitement in the
community that we could be that close to
actually making a discovery because we
have the scientific techniques now to
make these kinds of investigations. And
so that kicked off, you know, a whole
line of Mars research that um, you know,
we sent the Mars Exploration Rover,
Spirit and Opportunity in the early
2000s. Then followed by Curiosity, which
landed on Mars in 2012, a robotic
geologist to try to identify whether or
not Mars was actually habitable for
life. And then when we found yes indeed,
we sent the Perseverance rover, the Mars
2020 mission, which is the latest one,
and it's been actually trying to
identify the most promising rock samples
to bring back to Earth so that we can
analyze um those rocks and try to
identify signs of life there. So, it's
probably not going to be able to make a
definitive detection of life, but
identify essentially what are called
possible bios signatures or potential
bio signatures. Some people call them
ambiguous bios signatures because they
on Earth could be indicative of life but
of course Mars is a different place from
Earth and there might be different
geological processes that could result
in those features as well. So anyway the
buzz from like two weeks ago
>> was that the Perseverance rover whose
mission again is to look for the most
interesting and promising rocks to bring
back to Earth for searching for signs of
life identified one such promising
outcrop. And uh in in summary, they
found organic matter. So carbonri matter
and life as we know it is carbon based.
Uh no no offense to the horda or
anything like that, you know, but we're
we're mostly looking for carbon-based
life. So finding organics would seem to
be a prerequisite. Okay, check that box.
But then more interesting than that is
that they they found these interesting
um in in science we call them redox
states of the minerals in in those
rocks. And so one thing that life is
known to do and probably all life in the
universe will do is influence its
environment by essentially shuttling
electrons around. All life especially um
you know life that lives like microbial
life that lives within rocks to to make
a living. They're shuttling electrons
between different minerals in those
rocks. And so they change the minology
in a certain predictable way. And it
looks like in this rock formation, life
could have been responsible for the
kinds of patterns in these redox states
and these minerals. And so that's what
makes it so exciting. Is it a slam dunk
for life? No. But it makes us really
want to bring that sample back. And if
you know funding happens and we have the
willpower to make it so, uh, maybe one
day we will have that rock sample in our
laboratories here on Earth to make some
kind of more definitive statement as to
whether or not there was ancient
microbial life on Mars. But as for right
now, all we have is that very
tantalizing sign. It's it's still a
maybe, but it's it's it's great uh it's
a great leap forward in our search for
life.
>> Excellent. Thanks for that. Okay. So,
with that then let's let's just riff for
a few minutes if you don't mind. Let's
go maybe leave the science a bit. Talk a
little more about sci-fi. Have some fun
with that because we know you are
hardcore uh about all of that. So, and I
I can say I'll just preface by saying
I'm not I'm I'm not yet not currently
funded by any federal grants. So, I
might be able to say a few things
without fear of repercussion 2025. So,
put that out there. Um,
you know, we can look at like let's look
over like the next century of space
exploration of space uh robotic uh crude
etc. of of maybe moving into the solar
system. Okay. And but we start here at
home like in the states and
>> I should preface there there's a new
game coming out.
>> There is there's Yeah, that's fair.
There's a there's a new game coming out,
a new RPG coming out that is about about
spreading out amongst the solar system.
>> Are you are are you familiar um have you
been following any of the news or the
upcoming Kickstarter for uh Mongus's
Pioneer RPG?
>> No, sorry. I I have
>> No, no, it's it's we we heard about it
uh from Matthew Sprange, the their their
CEO, when we talked with him last week.
Um, and that was this was a couple years
ago or close to it about a year ago. A
year ago, I'm sorry. Um, so I've been
like
>> this has been on his mind. I I guess we
have to preface Michael's that's why
it's coming up.
>> But if you Google it, there's a
Kickstarter coming out. It sounds
absolutely fascinating. It its lead
writer is an astronomer. Like they're
getting serious about this. But but but
I would be asking this regardless
because this is like where my mind is.
And I've been thinking about this a lot
lately. So
you know Mars sample return. We have all
of those amazing samples cashed on the
surface and honestly at this point no
leg no real plan actual plan to bring
them back.
I mean we know how like it's probably
going to be done but we don't and we
know that it's not going to be done
anytime soon, right? Like that timeline
has slipped to put it nicely. Uh
Artemis, which I'm still really excited
about, right? In Artemis 2, we know
there aren't going to be Americans on
the lunar surface, at least until
Artemis 3. Hopefully, Artemis 3
continues.
Meanwhile, like the whole Shanga mission
design out of China, like they are
trailblazing like crazy. Like, like in
right in a handful of years, they've
basically gone from never been there to
now almost catching up with us short of
crude. Like it's it's amazing what China
is doing, right? And having having their
station in orbit right now and
constantly crude like like the landscape
that's a terrible word to use, but the
landscape and whatever is shifting.
India is rapidly develop developing
technology. Now I don't know if we're
going to have some kind of of of cold
war, if you will, where competition will
once again motivate. But I say all this
and I apologize for droning, but I say
all of this because you when it comes to
policy and ethics and whatnot, looking
like in the coming years, decades, even
even um even the the the next century or
the coming century, like things are
shifting and it's so relevant to to your
paper and some of the other work you and
your colleagues have done that it's
2025. Let's fast forward to 205 and
we're all off the record. No one's going
to lose any funding or be held
accountable to these these decisions or
these thoughts. All of which will
invariably prove incorrect. But like
2055
is going to look different in our solar
system than you know 1975 did
and and what we know is probably going
to be just astounding and more wonderful
than any of us can imagine. But that
said, things are changing and like each
of the countries and each of the
consorcia which are moving out into
space or hoping to move out into space,
they have difficult difficult they have
different ethical moral baselines,
right? Um they have different goals in
terms of expansion, in terms of instu
resource utilization, all of that. So,
putting on your just playing sci-fi cap,
mic,
like what are your thoughts? What are
your excitements? What are your
concerns? Like when you look decades and
decades out, what what like really gets
you thinking about what's all of this
going to I know that's a a big cloud,
but like what's this what's this going
to look like? Like what stands out to
you? I have my things, but what stands
out to you? like looking decades and
decades and decades to the future.
>> Wow, Jason,
I what a question. I mean, I let me just
preface this by saying that I don't even
know how to look five years into the
future. You know, I'm writing these
faculty applications right now. I'm a
posttock, right? Um, I'm I'm being asked
to essentially map out my my future
years and and decades as a scientist.
And I have such a hard time doing that.
Why? Because when I look five years uh
in the other direction five years ago,
could I have predicted any of the
projects that I'm working on right now,
including astrobiology ethics? No,
absolutely not. These things happen so
spontaneously and unpredictably. and
making predictions about the future is
something that I am very much still a
novice at. But um but I'll try to answer
your question.
>> Not predictions, just like thoughts,
quandries, things like that.
>> Well, I think again one of the things
that we are very concerned with is the
rising trend of um commercial space
enterprises. Now, don't get me wrong.
Things entities like SpaceX are
extraordinarily good at what they do in
terms of building rocketry that reliably
and reusably, sustainably uh get us into
space and our access to outer space
environments has never been has never
been better. Uh but one thing that I see
right now that is concerning to me is a
lack of um realization that NASA and
SpaceX are very different entities. And
it's not like, you know, some people
might be wondering, well, you know, we
have SpaceX now. Why do our taxpayer
dollars have to go to continue to fund
this aging space agency called NASA?
And, you know, SpaceX, like I said, is
really good at doing the thing that it
does, but it is the isn't really the
reason that we choose to go to space
right now. you know they they they can
build rockets but the reason why
traditionally that we've gone to space
over the past many decades is for
knowledge making for curiosity for um
you know satisfying that itch as an
exploratory species and understanding
better our place in the universe that's
what NASA does NASA build scientific
instrumentation space probes to explore
everywhere from the sulfuric acid clouds
of Venus to the distant you know dwarf
planet Pluto and unveil these incredible
uh new environments that help us reflect
on our own place in the cosmos. Um and
so so what I see in terms of to use your
your the word landscape shifting right
now is prioritizing these commercial
gains over scientific exploration or not
even realizing that you know scientific
exploration is something that uh that
that we're really good at you know and
and and
in in the future if that continues to to
go then you know we're going to see
space essentially as a playground for a
very small subset of humanity
>> that whose outputs don't necessarily
raise the sense of awe and wonder and
community and togetherness and even
perhaps you know some kind of spiritual
um feelings about uh who we are. Uh and
and I I I would rather not see us go to
Mars just to build, you know, hotels for
the uber rich um or to plant flags uh
for for our nation states here on Earth,
but really to just increase our sense of
wonder as as humanity. Um and that's
that's sort of one of the driving forces
I think behind the reason why we wrote
the paper that we wrote.
>> Yeah. I think the challenge, you know,
coming from the coming from the business
world, the privatization of space travel
we have right now versus,
you know, scientific space travel. I'm
seeing it and I think this is what
you're saying and I'm going to say it
probably in a very simple way. So, um,
my worry is that from looking at it from
the business world, there is always a
challenge. Let me rephrase that. In many
ways and in a lot of ways, there's
always a challenge of ethics and
morality when you introduce that. And my
worry or concern is that that's going to
permeate and it already is starting to
permeate and how is that going to affect
and that's why I think your paper is so
important because it's that type of
discussion is going to abut against and
it's going to it's going to come up
against the moving train
of of the business of space travel. Um
and without you know and again without
you know getting into like the
individual space companies or anything
like that because you know we could go
into we could pick a spa we could pick
those private companies and have a
discussion about each one of them
individually right now and we could go
for hours on it but you know it's not
always the science of space the science
that's drive it's not the science that's
driving them right now. Um,
>> y
>> and that's that's a major concern. I
think there can be a coexistence of that
and that's just not what's occurring and
I don't see that unless you the topics
that your paper has introduced
continues.
Um,
and you know I hate to say it in the
business world greed drives money
drives. Um
>> well I mean then there's a you know if
it's a corporation there's a
responsibility legally to shareholders.
>> Yeah. Well even if it's private even if
it's private even if it's private the
greed drives and they it's a it's a
cycle and ownership group or owner wants
to make money.
>> So even if the shareholder is that
person or a ownership group um and not a
stockholder. So um you know when when
your paper came out I thought this is
going to be interesting and I think it's
a good discussion to have especially as
we see this privatization and I hope we
do not completely yield I you know to
privatization
as much as you know I think capitalis
capitalis you know capitalis capitalism
is important
um you know we're on a very slippery
slope right
Sorry. I I I ranted and I didn't need to
do that with you on the on here.
>> No, it's good.
>> Well, we all feel it.
>> I Yeah, we feel it. And yeah, completely
acknowledge that. Uh Brad, now Jason,
you sent me a couple of papers that you
had written a few years ago and I had
the pleasure of reading through
recently.
uh and and and you I one thing I really
love about you is how optimistic you
are, how you're always putting a
positive spin on everything. And so in
the paper that you titled Artemis and an
environmentally sustainable future
beyond Earth, you talk about how
thinking about and trying to develop
sustainable futures in space is an
opportunity to just rethink how we
interact with nature in general and how
people can try to learn to develop and
maintain what you call empathy for
nature. And I was hoping that you could
riff a little bit on that a little bit
more. What what how do you imagine us uh
developing this greater sense of empathy
for nature?
>> I mean, that's that's very kind of you,
Mike. I I I we we don't have you don't
have to do that. We don't have to I I'll
answer the question briefly, but that
that's very kind of Thank you. We we
don't have to do that. We we're here to
talk to you and kick up with you.
>> Sorry, my my own podcast host snuck in.
>> No, no, no, no. You're good.
>> We're going there next. Don't worry. We
want you to pitch that hard. Um cuz we
love your podcast. Um no, you know, I
appreciate that. It's you just have to
be optimistic. I mean, and and I don't
mean that
like I consider myself an optimist by
default. Anyone who know Yeah, I'm
getting the look from Brad. Anyone who
knows me
>> No, I know you though.
>> Oh, actually, I was going to say the
reality is I'm probably not. I I I in
real in in reality I am what you might
call an optimistic realist like like I
had a I had a colleague I had um back in
the day at a former institution um our
our STEM dean he was a really neat guy
uh and and he would and then he went
into consulting and and he he would tell
people with this huge grin which was
legit, I am an inveterate optimist.
Well, I can't be an inveterate optimist
in 2025, but I'm also I'm also not right
because that's not how the cosmos works.
It's much more nuanced and complex
complex much like one of your recent
papers as well. Um, but uh but I think
you know I'm I'm deeply involved you
much most of my research is around right
like nature and its benefits and
whatnot. And to me like there are real
opportunities for bringing that with us
as we go. But even more importantly,
this is this is personally why your
paper resonated so strongly with me
particularly that we are going to be
encountering these amazing natural
environments from which we can learn,
from which we can grow, develop, maybe
even evolve as a species. And I think
you you and your colleagues would agree
with this, but which I would argue
strongly which require our ethical
protection, what whatever that ends up
meaning. And you know, so I've ripped a
little bit about that in a few papers.
You guys talk a whole lot about that.
Um, this has been addressed in a number
I say a number like less than a dozen,
right? This has been addressed in a
number of papers.
most of them in the past 20 years, most
of them uh uh policy or philosophical
often though written by scientists, but
what I love is kind of like Brad said,
but you got yours into nature. And so
this is the first one. I don't mean that
just as a pat on the back that this is
maybe the first time a paper in that
arena
is not niche
>> and that's that's important that's a big
that's a big deal I mean we can we can
talk more about more about my stuff
offline I will say though I I find this
stuff so compelling Brad knows this and
a little shagrin my wife knows this that
I think increasingly I want to like even
professionally go in toward like
environmental SL space policy like like
we'll see after my girls get out of
college. There's a degree program I've
got my eyes on. Okay. More importantly
more importantly um you do happen to
host a podcast
>> which which we love. Uh it does not come
out sufficiently frequently but we still
love it. You you are a busy individual.
Um, but but but pitch it like a lot of
our listeners undoubtedly are familiar
with it, not just from you being on the
podcast before, but but tell us about
your podcast and and whatever you want
them to know.
>> Yeah, Strange New Worlds, a science and
Star Trek podcast. Um, basically this is
something I started a number of years
ago just as Star Trek Discovery was
coming out and um, I was listening to a
bunch of other Star Trek podcasts at the
time and you know people were talking
about the characters and the story arcs
and everything you know including the
uh, the costumeuming and the set design
but nobody was talking about the
science. And so I decided one day to
just try to fill that niche myself and
um talk about the science that we were
seeing on screen, not just in Discovery,
but across all the different Star Trek
series. And it's really been a fun
project of mine. Um just blossomed into
talking to all sorts of different
scientist nerds about uh the science of
Star Trek and uh even some of the folks
who were on the other side of creating
Star Trek, you know, some of the actors
who have portrayed science officers and
writers and things like that. Um, and
it's it's been a blast. I do it when I
have time in my spare time. So, there's
no regular release schedule as you know.
Um, if you've been following, um, you
know, sometimes there can I can go a
month where I put out four episodes.
Sometimes there will be two months where
I don't put out any episodes. And it
just depends on how busy I am with my
work. Uh, because I don't want it to
feel like work. I I want it to just be,
you know, something that I enjoy doing
when I have the space in my life to do
it. Um, and I gotta say, I think the
next couple of episodes will be inspired
by this great book that I happen to read
called Second Star to the Right, Essays
on Leadership in Star Trek,
>> which you're familiar.
>> Yeah. So, I wrote chapter five, and I'm
really, really, really proud of that.
Um,
>> thank you, Jason, and also to your
colleague Aaron Peterson for inviting me
to to do that. It was a challenge for me
because I didn't know what I could
contribute. But but you believing in me
helped me craft this story about my
mentoring philosophy through the lens of
Star Trek Lower X, which is like
honestly my favorite Star Trek series.
It's it's it's really fun. Um and then
I'm reading through the other chapters
now that the book has been published and
I'm thinking about how to spin those
into um into into some podcast episodes.
So yeah, you can look forward to that in
the near future.
>> Good. And also for those who haven't yet
been listening to your podcast because
they should be. Um I mean it's obviously
you know science and Star Trek podcast
but like you said I want to double down
on this it matters. There's a lot more
than quote just science right that
brings in a lot of us but like you've
been doing a lot in terms of um of
science reporting right you've been
partnering lately like you have it's not
just you and it's not even always just
interviews. There have been a lot of
dialogues in recent episodes. Um, and I
think, and I mean this in a really
complimentary way. It's really, really
accessible. you you or you guys are
going after
>> wonderfully complex things typically
that are coming out of the episodes,
>> but then you're breaking them down in a
very downto-earth way, which um like if
you as a if you're a gamer, if you're a
writer, whatever, like people can listen
to your discussions and because this
happens to me even though I don't write
fiction and I just like, oh, neat and
then I go on with my life. But like if
you're looking for ways to understand
some of these concepts, if you're
looking for ideas, like I can see people
listening to a bunch of those episodes,
Mike, and thinking like, "Okay, that's
the seed. I'm going to go write my thing
now." Um, so it's very cool. Keep doing
it.
>> Wow. Thank you so much. Yeah, that's far
too kind, but I really appreciate it.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Well,
>> you don't you don't have to be I was
just going to say you don't have to be a
scient I you know, you do not have to be
a scientist
>> to listen to it. I'm not your
traditional scientist and I enjoy
listening to it. It's, you know, so
>> you're not even an untraditional
scientist.
>> Yeah. And I didn't say and I Yeah. And I
didn't say it a holiday press last
night.
>> That's right. Very good. Yeah.
>> Um,
>> so yeah, it's definitely one that, you
know, put it on your playlist and listen
to it even if it, you know, even if it
has nothing to do with Second Star of
the Right
>> because there's always Star Trek. Mike,
thanks so much for coming back. We
really, we always love talking. It's
it's really kind of you come back. So
pleased we could have this discussion
and talk about your paper.
>> Oh, thank you both for having me. This
was a blast and um yeah, looking forward
to the next time.
>> You got it.
[Music]
>> Mike, thanks again for joining.
Absolutely fascinating discussion. Um
and I we say this all the time, but and
I'm gonna say it again. We cannot wait
that long to have you back beyond
reusing you as a as a you know
>> in person. In person.
>> Yeah. An actual real as a as an actual
real guest. So
>> that's right. Well, yeah. So you you you
are a real guest. You are not you are
not a mannequin to us.
>> Yes. So or an AI as Jim thinks
>> or an AI. Well, I mean I guess we
wouldn't know for sure since it was
Zoom, but we're assuming you were a very
real person.
>> I think he I think he was a real person.
I think so, too.
>> So, why don't we head over to Lon Cafe?
>> I think we should.
>> What about you? What have you what's
been what has been on your desk or
>> Well, I can tell you what's been on my
mind that's someday going to be on my
desk.
>> Okay. Oh, I know where you're going.
>> You know exactly where I'm going with
this. So, in a bit more than a month as
this episode drops,
the Pioneer RPG from our friends at
Mongoose
>> Oh, yeah. will be announced or I should
say the Kickstarter will open for
Pioneer.
And I've never been able to say this in
my life before about a Kickstarter for a
game, but I will I will
>> big- time giggity. The giggity and the
goo. Yeah, I am I'm all over this. I
ever since ever since Matthew told us of
it
a year ago
>> last almost a year ago
>> almost a year ago
uh I am I am so looking forward to this
if you don't know then you need to step
out of your vacuum start following
Mongoose but Pioneer is uh going to be a
as as we understand it very unlimited
information I don't have any inside
knowledge uh I I read the posts on
social media. I um I I check the Discord
every week. Um but this will be a near
future. So over uh uh over the next
century or so. So figure about a century
from now. Uh colonizing exploring and
colonizing the solar system.
Uh there reportedly are no antagonists,
right? Instead of combat, combat is
environmental survival.
>> Yes.
>> And this is going to take place, we
think, across the solar system. So the
the um the Kickstarter opens
on 10:30 or if you're in Europe on 3010
and uh I I cannot wait. This is
occupying a significant part. I'll sound
like commander data here. This is
occupying a significant portion of my
daily processing. Like, I don't know
that there's a day that goes by when I
don't think of it or at least check the
socials just in case something else was
posted. I would not be offended if they
even wanted to just drop another tease.
Um,
but it it looks like it was co-written
by an astrophysicist.
>> Um, it just it I am so there, Brad. So,
that's what's that's what's been on my
mind eventually to be on my desk. How
about you? What's on your desk?
>> Well, you know, you know, well, I have a
new desk.
>> Yeah, you do.
>> Um because I moved, but um not so much
on my desk, but on new bookshelves.
>> Yes,
>> because I have been setting up my
bookshelves.
>> Yeah, they look good.
>> And and I have been looking, you know,
because we have a lot we have a we
actually are going to be playing. It is
scheduled as you just
>> We will be playing. It's scheduled. Yes,
as you reminded just reminded me it is
scheduled.
>> Um
>> our first and probably only
actual play episode.
>> Well, we did try this before, didn't we?
>> We've talked about this before.
>> Didn't we do some sort of live play or
something like this?
>> I don't think so.
>> No,
>> I might be repressing, but I don't think
so.
>> Did we did No, we we did uh we did
expanse, but we didn't do it live. We
just played, which was fun, but we
didn't record that.
>> No. No, we did not we did not record
that.
>> But that was fun.
>> That was fun.
>> Um I have I I have been organizing my
shelving
>> Mhm.
>> and my books.
>> Yes.
>> And realized
um Yaoza got a lot of them.
>> I did not appreciate
I'm using that word really specifically.
I did not appreciate
the
magnitude,
>> breadth and depth of my Traveler
collection.
>> Oh, well, I was going to say just of
your RPG library as a whole, but your
Traveler collection in and of itself is
truly impressive, especially for a guy
who doesn't play it.
I gotta tell you though, that stuff I
have spent um
>> a lot of money,
>> multiple Well, yeah, it's probably why
I'm here. But moving on, moving on.
>> Um
>> um but evenings here.
>> Yeah.
>> Um I have spent multiple evenings here.
Turned the TV off.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Um just in the past now week and a half.
>> Yep.
>> Um going through
>> Good for you.
um the Traveler material just again I've
done it once before um but going through
it again and just reminding myself why I
think that is just such
a cool game
>> and and they keep publishing I there's
there's I see the updates there's so
much coming out for Traveler
>> I am I I I don't know
the you know obviously
You know what what people who what
traveler what people who are traveler
experts, longtime traveler players call
Mongoose Traveler second edition, which
is what the current edition is out.
That's what they call,
>> right?
>> There are multiple editions that are
that have run before this going back to
Mark Miller's original Traveler going
back to 1977.
>> I don't know those
at
>> well at all. M
>> um
what I can say is I don't know where
they are pulling so much creativity from
>> like new ideas
>> to get all of this great material
into these books whether it's the
adventures
>> the you know I'll be honest with you
when you next time you're down here when
we pull these up and we pull up and we
show that you know the maps alone in
these books are unbelievable.
>> I I will say cuz the only the only
traveler material I have are the two
books you sent me. Some Thank you. Some
some already two plus years ago, I
think. Yeah. Right. Um
>> I'm I am Yeah. When I when I come to
visit, I am I am very curious to see
what some of those others look like on
the inside. Yeah. I really And how
they're evolving.
>> Yeah, it it's all high quality. It's all
high quality material. Mongoose puts
together just great great material. And
I've seen, you know, I've seen some of
their stuff from Paranoia and elsewhere.
So, it's not just relegated to Traveler,
but my focus is on is on Traveler. And I
have their Traveler 2300 as well, which
is really well done.
>> Oh, that's interesting. We haven't
talked about that at all.
>> Yeah, we haven't. I There's There's just
I just have a smaller little subset.
There's not as much material out for
that.
>> Right. But right um but just just really
good stuff. But it just it reminds me as
I'm going through my shelves, you know.
>> There's just really good games. I have
to say Free League
>> with their material. I was looking at my
stuff for The One Ring, which is the
nonfivee,
not the Lord of the Rings, which is the
fivee game,
>> right?
>> The one ring, which runs on its own dice
mechanic. That's the one that I have. I
don't have the
>> We haven't talked about that in a while.
No. Um, you know, I had, you know, Tales
from the Loop, which is phenomenal.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, there's just there's so much like
>> there's so many games to play. I mean,
that's the it's a wonderful problem to
have,
>> right?
>> There's so many games to play. And now
that I'm further out in the country and
if we get some bad weather here on the
weekends and such, um
>> like think of winter, this coming
winter. I think between between you
being where you are now and me being on
sbatical this semester.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh maybe as as the weather really turns,
you and I might find some time like
really we just it I wouldn't be
surprised in the evenings just
impromptu. Yep. I wouldn't mind spinning
up even just saying, you know what, I
mean, even I pulled together my Genesis
stuff and put it together. So, I have my
Worlds of Android right there,
>> you know. So, um, and I did bring over,
even though I don't have many others
with me, I do have my uh, Twilight
Imperium board game here with me as
well, even though
>> there we go. I want to see that in
action someday.
>> Yeah, that's an interesting and I mean,
we've talked about that.
>> And we still need to play Extraut.
Yes.
>> I I mean it's I've got that up on the
shelf. So, okay. Well,
>> yes,
>> we're drifting so we should probably
start to wrap it. But, um just a heads
up for everybody. Uh I know we say this
a lot, but in a burst of scheduling
fervor.
>> You were a machine.
>> I I just I sent out emails and then man
did people follow up. So we, you know,
we're we're we're fortunate, I think,
Brad, that the Dyson Mind brand, uh,
though small though we might be, word, I
think, is getting out because at least
there's enough out there because people
are like enthusiastically
responding to chat,
>> new new guests,
>> new people. Yeah. Yeah. New new people.
Um, because there are so many people in
so many games you and I have been
talking about um, really since we
started Dyson Mine. And you know, you
can only get to them so quickly, of
course. But I bring this up because, you
know, it is September now, late late
September as this drops. Uh we are
already scheduled through December.
>> Uh to the point that like we've been
having trouble scheduling because we
don't have the available time on our
end.
>> Uh which again is a is a a lovely
problem to have and we are grateful. So,
you know, everybody, when when we say uh
stay tuned, we have a whole bunch of
stuff coming up. Um I'm not sure it's
ever been more true. We are going to
hear from game designers, from from, you
know, internationally known writers. I I
mean, we're just we have a really really
fun range of people and creators coming
your way as we move through the
remainder of 2025.
Um, so that's the plan. You know the
deal. Be well, stay well. We will see
you in a couple of weeks.
[Music]
