[music]
[music]
Welcome to Dyson Mind, a podcast hosted
by Brad Brown and Jason Kaufman to
explore the intersection of life, games,
science, science, music, philosophy, and
creativity through interviews with
leading creatives. All are welcome in
this space.
[music]
You You put me up this week.
Legitimately, you put me up this week to
do something that that I'm I don't mind
doing, but
>> acting like an adult.
>> Well, you've been trying to do that for
to me since I was since I was 18, and
I'm now 51, and it still isn't working.
>> I think you're doing great. Yeah,
[laughter] I'm I'm I'm attempting. It's
called It's called being around you for
this long. It's called mimicking. Um but
>> Oh, I think it's more about just
building up your immune tolerance, but
keep going.
>> That could be too. Um but I I flew solo
this week because you
>> Thank you for doing that. Had a family
engagement, right?
>> Yeah. Yep. be a legit issue and and I
will say it was a lot of fun um speaking
with um WM Acres who we will call in our
interview will gave us the permission to
do that.
>> Um never the same I will say it is never
the same not having um our banter in the
interview but it was a fun discussion
that we will get into here shortly. Um
but what I found really fascinating is
um his discussion about roleplaying
>> and that was not on I I I'll be
perfectly honest that was not on my
radar for discussion role playing in
terms of his gaming and um
um
>> he's designed and published
>> yes
>> a a number of indie games and and we've
been respectively intrigued by different
ones and have been talking about having
Will on the show for literally a couple
years if not more.
>> Right. But where you and you just did
such a beautiful job with the interview
where that just cuz I was telling you
before we recorded it's the first time
everybody that I've ever listened to one
of our episodes or at least one of our
interviews because I wasn't in it and he
just he just went it was a really
interesting
>> he really just Yeah. I mean Will thank
you. It you made you made my job so
easy. I'm always
>> I'm never nervous when I do these things
because we have such phenomenal guests.
I never
>> I never like worry. I I soloed with with
our um official Dyson mine meteorologist
Katie.
>> That's right. Yeah.
>> And that was that was a lot of fun.
>> And we already knew Katie, so that
helped.
>> Yes. This was not this was not Katie's
first attempt
at at showing interest in our show. Um
>> we appreciate the figning.
>> Yes. Exactly. Yeah.
>> Um but but will the just in how you were
just in your the depth in which how you
kind of talked about your background and
interest and I tried to be very cautious
because I'm really into dead ball and I
tried to
>> to I'll be perfectly honest. I tried to
kind of hold back on that because I
didn't want it to become a whole thing
about dead ball because I could have
just I could have picked your brain for
hours about it
>> because because our actual purpose was
to talk with him about Letters to the
Stars.
>> Yes.
>> But but instead instead and then we'll
turn it over to the interview cuz now
everyone's like, "Okay, so get to it.
What did they talk about?" But I think
your chat with Will
epitomized what Dyson Mind is about,
what our goals are for this podcast. We
talked about this a bit. Uh that that
this is what we're after. This is why
we're doing this beyond the inordinate
fun and meeting all of these people and
chatting with these these people,
remarkable individuals and creatives.
This is what it's about of the the joy,
the beauty, the literature, just the
depth of what RPGs can bring, can offer.
And you guys just nailed that.
>> And and Will is uh not not just a game
developer, he's a writer.
>> Just the amount go if you go out to
wmacres.net, you can see
>> all that he's gotten involved with and
everything. I would recommend people do
that. Yeah, please.
>> But if you listen to the interview, we
we get we do get into gaming, but
there's just so much more we've talked
about
>> um that and it's stuff that that much
like all of our episodes. It's stuff
that
>> um they're so organic. I just,
>> you know, we went in directions I just
didn't expect. And the the conversation
just was out, it was just
>> just fun. it and it came AC and it was
fun to listen. So, all right everybody,
here's your turn. Let's go over and and
take a listen. [music]
WM Acres is a novelist, playwright,
editor, game designer, copywriter, and
well, just about any other kind of
writer you might require. He is the
author of Westside, Westside Saints and
Westside Lights, the creator of Dead
Ball, Baseball with Dice, and Comrades,
a revolution RPG, and too many plays to
mention here. He is also responsible for
Strange Times, a weekly newsletter that
investigates the weirdest news 1921 has
to offer, and Strange Pulp, an irregular
journal of weird fiction.
[music]
WM Acres, we will go by since we talked
about it. Will, thanks for stopping in
and chatting with me tonight. I have
been looking forward to this for a long
time because I have been a fan of your
work dating back to when I was first
introduced
to Dead Ball. And that has to be oh
goodness many, you know, I would say
many. I'm I'm in the tech world, so many
is five years ago, but it's been a long
time.
um um many years ago um and have
followed you and we talked a while back
and we have finally been able to connect
and I am so excited about it.
>> It is absolutely my pleasure. You know,
I was uh checking my email. I was
searching to make sure I had the right
uh link to get on this call and I saw
that y'all first emailed me in 2022. So
that was some years ago and I'm really
glad to finally be here. I really
appreciate y'all coming back after me,
not letting me go away.
>> Yeah. Thank Thank you again. So, you
know, just to get started, you know, you
are a writer, you're a game designer, um
you're a podcaster,
um you're not only a writer of novels
and games, you write a newsletter. Um
so, for me to ask, you know, how did you
start? That's really kind of a I mean,
that's almost like a silly like nebulous
question to ask. So, I guess the
question is I guess maybe I'll pose it
this way. is is um from the perspective,
you know, you're kind of a Renaissance
man in many ways just based off of
everything that you're doing um writing
in general. How did that kind of like
how did that start fostering itself
within you? I've wanted to write since I
was a kid. My dad um is screenwriter and
a uh screenwriting teacher um who taught
uh at universities in Nashville for
decades um and has worked in Hollywood.
So, I grew up in that environment. It
was I was, you know, I grew up watching
a person typing on a keyboard and I
thought that seemed like a pretty neat
job. Um, but more than that, I think I
came to it the way that most writers
come to it, which is when I was a kid, I
love to read. Um, and I was obsessed
with books. Like the library was and is
my favorite place in the world. I was
happiest when I had a book in my hand.
I've always felt that as long as I've
got a book in my back pocket, I'll never
be bored. Um, and so I just, you know,
as a kid grew up like loving loving
loving stories and being really eager to
find ways to tell my own stories and to
write books and see my name on the spine
of a book and, you know, write stories
that would excite people and that people
would connect with. Um, as much as the
series that I loved when I was a kid,
cuz you know, like most kids, I grew up
really, you know, when you're a kid, you
get hooked on a series of books and
those will just take over your life for
a period. So, when I was a kid, it was
Goosebumps. It was the Red Wall books by
Brian Jocks. It was when I was a little
bit older, it was the Hitchhiker's Guide
to the Galaxy books. Um, those were, you
know, the I just would read them over
and over and over again. I would find
friends to talk to about them. Um, I was
actually I was thinking the other day
about when I was in fourth grade, my
friends and I would go out, my Red Wall
friends, we would go out and every
single day at the playground, we'd take
over the sandbox and build recreations
of maps from different specific Red Wall
books. Um, and from from that age on,
all I ever wanted was to write a book
with a map in the front. And I've gotten
to do several of those now, and it never
stops being extremely cool. Um, so I
wanted to be a writer since I was a kid.
Um, in high school, I got more serious
about it. I worked on a couple of
different newspapers in high school. I
wrote a lot of short stories. Um, and
then when I went to college, NYU, I
ended up double majoring in English and
playwriting. um because I had taken some
creative writing classes, but I wanted
to do a full-on major. And at that time,
at least, I don't know if this has
changed, but at that time, NYU didn't
offer a creative writing major. So, I
was like, well, I'll go and I'll learn
about playwriting and TV writing and
screenwriting. And it ended up being the
best thing for me, I think, because um
the way that they teach writing in that
kind of program is very different from
the way they teach writing in a creative
writing course. In a creative writing
course, it's a lot about um
let me think of a polite way to say
this. In a creative writing course,
there are rarely wrong answers. It tends
to be a really encouraging environment,
which I think is really important. Um
but can also be a little bit treacherous
for a beginning writer, which is really
what I was. Um whereas in screenwriting,
in TV writing especially and also in
playwriting, there are rules and there
are you know formats you can learn.
There are structures you can learn.
There are like really rigorous things
that you could focus in on. And that
focus on structure um was really
important to me. Helped me learn a lot
about like how to actually tell a story
in a way that people wanted to listen
to. And that kind of became like my
guiding light for my whole creative
life. Um so that was how I got into
writing in a serious way. I wrote plays
for my entire 20s and then I started
writing fiction again in around 2016
2017 and wrote the book that would
become Deadball or sorry not Deadball
Westside. Westside was my first novel.
Um and while I was waiting for that to
come out um I started working on
Deadball which was the game that brought
me to you.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, hey, so Westside, how
did you you know, without without
spoiling it for everyone, because we'll
have links in the show notes and
everything so people can go and actually
check it out. Um,
what drew you to the premise of it
because it cuz it's like it's in effect
a series of books now, right?
>> Yeah. So, that turned into a trilogy.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, yeah. And those were uh so they are
supernatural jazz age mysteries. They're
set, the first one's set in 1921, and
it's in a version of New York City where
the whole west side of the island has
been walled off with this giant wall,
and there are strange duins over there.
Just all sorts of supernatural spooky
things and great mysteries. Um, but the
hook that got me into those stories was
an idea I had for the main character,
Gilda, who was a detective who
specializes in what she calls tiny
mysteries, which are the mysteries that
are too small for anybody else to care
about. It's where I leave my keys.
What's that weird sound coming out, you
know, of the window? Like, why is it
that when I stand on this one corner at
a certain time of day, it smells like
chocolate? Like those the weird little
mysteries, the things that keep you up
at night. And um each of those books
starts off with her pursuing a tiny
mystery and then of course getting drawn
into the type of bigger mystery that she
always swears that she'll stay away
from. Um, and it was uh a period that I
had been drawn to originally actually
because of gaming because at that time I
was running a lot of Call of Cutloo um
and like classic Call of Cthloo in a
1920s setting. And so that sort of uh
Macabra Lovecraftian 1920s thing melded
with stuff that I already had bouncing
around in my head because I'd always
wanted to write mystery novels. And um
so those things sort of combined to
create Westside. And I've actually a
story I've told before is that I I I
couldn't have finished that book if it
weren't for running role playing games.
Um I wrote the first half of the first
draft without really knowing where I was
going and just sort of like blindly
charging forward. And then I got to a
point about halfway through the book
where the main character opened up a
door and found a bomb. Um and it was
like ooh exciting a bomb. But I couldn't
keep writing because I had no idea who'd
put that bomb there. It was just sort of
an incident that I threw at the wall cuz
I thought, well, we need something
exciting to happen here. What if there
was a bomb? But I didn't really know who
the bad guy was. I didn't know what was
going on. And then it wasn't until I ran
the great big call of Kuthlu cap
campaign Masks of Nara Foteep, which I
can still say although it takes some
practice um that I really had to learn
an essential skill for any GM, which is
how to figure out what the bad guys are
doing, how to think through everything
from the bad guys point of view. Because
when you're running a role playing game,
you're in charge of everything but the
heroes. Um whereas when I was working on
my fiction, I was thinking about it from
the hero's point of view only and I was
sort of forgetting about everything
else. So running role playing games
taught me how to figure out how a world
works, what the her what the villains
are doing, um and how they're trying to
stop the heroes and then most
importantly what will happen if the
heroes do nothing. Um and so those
lessons which are so important to make
an RPG feel real, I brought into my
fiction. It helped me immensely. I
wouldn't have been able to finish that
book if I hadn't learned that stuff. Um,
and there's also just a million other
tiny things that you learn while you're
ro running role playing games about
writing. And it's like the best possible
feedback because it's live feedback.
You're there, you're with your audience.
And if if you come up with something
that's not working, you know, really
really fast because you can see your
friends getting bored and you've got to
like try to bring them back in. Um, so
I've tried to, you know, maintain that
same level of energy and urgency when
I'm writing books.
Oh, I could go in so many different
directions because you you I I I didn't
expect you to hit the role playinging
thing so early, you know, because
[laughter] and it's funny because one,
you know, that was really kind of the
onus by which we originally had kind of
started the podcast, but one of the
things that we've focused on and talked
about a lot is,
you know, the link between RPGs and
literature, and you've just hit upon it,
and that is the creativity of both um
and how it feeds. And I just I just find
that so fascinating
um that your time as a GM
um really fed your ability and and
fueled you as an author and as a writer
and it actually helps me understand a
little bit as a consumer of your
material. Like you have your you your
Strange Times newsletter which actually
came out today. I saw the the latest
episode. I haven't had a chance. It was
episode or uh issue 233 today, right?
[laughter] Um, so I haven't I haven't
been able to read it yet. I was busy
during the day, but it comes from a
similar time period that 20th.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, Strange Times is a
newsletter that I've been writing since
about 2017, I think. Um, and it actually
it came out of the research that I was
doing for Westside. Um, the my favorite
way to do research forever has always
been to dig around in New York Times
archives. um or you know any newspaper
archives, but the New York Times
archives are particularly
well-maintained and searchable and easy
to read. So when I was doing research,
you know, I'd run a lot of role playing
games set in the 1920s. The difference
between a role playing game and a book
is you can make a lot of nonsense up.
Whereas with a book, you know, you kind
of have to try to make it as accurate as
possible. Um because people will go and
check, whereas if you're sitting at the
table with them, they're not supposed to
be looking at their phones. They can't
just go and check whatever nonsense you
made up. Um but uh so I you know had to
sort of refine my knowledge of the
period and so I spent a lot of time
reading New York Times articles and the
problem that I would run into was a very
fun one which was that it is very
difficult for me to flip through uh an
issue of an old newspaper without
getting sidetracked. um you know you
every time I would open up the 1921 New
York Times I would find crazy stuff and
I spent a lot of time bothering my wife
with it and I finally decided that she
deserved a break and so I would bother
the whole rest of the world with it by
turning it into a newsletter. So it was
started really as an offshoot of the
research that I was doing for those
books and it it is a project I've been
working on for a while now as you said
it's up to issue 233 and so it is a
dayby-day close reading of the 1921 New
York Times. So, I started in I think
2017 with January 1st and now we're up
to I think August 22nd. So, it's taken 8
years to get through most of the year
cuz it's it used to be once a week, now
it's just twice uh once every two weeks.
Um, but every single time I open it up,
I find something crazy. And uh just this
week, let's see, there was an article
about um this religious community in
Illinois where they decided to insist
that all men's bathing costumes have
skirts on them that dangled past the
knee. Um so that was just a thing that
was in the newspaper. There was an
article about three guys who spent
$2,600 on several barrels of what they
thought was bootleg whiskey, but
actually turned out to just be water. Um
so they'd been hoodwinkedked. So just
stuff like that. I find every time I
open it up, there was a really good one
recently called um Blimp on Rampage,
which was about a runaway blimp that
flew around over New Jersey and they had
to like corral it. Um they they they put
crazy stuff in the newspaper back then
because they just had so many column
inches to fill and they didn't care if a
story was two sentences long. One of my
favorite ones I've ever found was it was
literally like a twoline story and it
just said population of Buenos IRA is
now 1.7 million 233,419
and that was the whole newspaper
article.
>> That was the story.
>> Yeah, it was just like you know we have
we have to we have a little bit of space
at the bottom of the page. Somebody open
up the almanac and just find us a fact
that we can jam in there. Um and it's
been a lot of fun just exploring the
really weird and sometimes very
upsetting stuff that they published in
the 1921 Times. I use when when it comes
out that's like my evening read before,
you know, when I start to to wind down
because I find that to be relaxing just
because to your point
>> that's a huge compliment. Thank you.
>> Yeah, it's it's the type, you know, it's
not the it's it's not the newspaper we
get anymore. Obviously,
>> it's very different,
>> you know, and and so I I just find it
fascinating some of the and and again,
you know, I come from the Midwest. Um,
so I've looked at like the Milwaukee
paper, some of the archived Milwaukee
papers. Um, there were some crazy
stories here and there. Nothing like
what I've seen in your in your
newsletter, but
>> [laughter]
>> um, but that you can actually you can
get for folks that are interested. We'll
have the link to wmacres.net. You'll be
able I think you can subscribe. There's
a link to be able.
>> It's totally free. Um, yeah. And I've
never never had any success monetizing
it, so I just keep it free. It's it's
really just a thing I do for fun. and um
the you know community of people who
enjoy it seem to really enjoy it. But
and also you know I think uh for writers
I think that there um is a little bit of
inspiration there. I think you know
sometimes if you're stuck picking up
something very strange and random can be
inspiring. So I'm hoping that there are
writers out there who you know take this
and write a story about a blimp on a
rampage or about some guys who got
conned into buying several barrels of
water.
>> Barrels of water. that one. That one I
saw the highlight the the headline for
that and then the the skirt thing and
I'm like, "Okay, this will be [laughter]
an interesting this will be an
interesting one tonight."
>> So So So we I I purposfully didn't want
to dive completely into dead ball at
first because I wanted to kind of get to
that point. So,
dead ball is um different than any sort
of game that we we've talked about on
the the podcast before, although I have
talked about my sports gaming um
addiction in the past for folks that
listen. Um what was the premise? I know
it because I've because I've read
because you've talked about you've
talked about it in your writings as to
the premise behind it. But for those
that haven't seen it before, um what was
your premise behind doing something with
dead ball and using like it's a very
simple system in the grand scheme of
things to for from a dice perspective?
And to be honest with you, I think it's
somewhat addicting to do, you know, and
and the and I'll be honest with you, I'm
people can't see because it's audio
only. the book. Now, I have the hard
cover and I have the paperback, but the
but it is just a little bit bigger than
if people are interested then trade
paperback for the basic rules.
um between that and some pieces of paper
and some d6s
um
you know or some you know some some
dice. I'm sorry. You know you are um you
can run and in effect manage your own
baseball teams without lots of cards or
anything like that.
>> So and you provide lots of score sheets
and lots of information out on the dead
belt website too for free.
>> And there's also an incredible community
has grown up around it. We've got um a
very active Discord and a pretty busy
Reddit where people um will share not
just their information about their
leagues, but folks are making tools that
can help you like run the game. People
um in the in the Discord there's a whole
uh channel that's all just like people
talking about their spreadsheets. So,
you know, it's that kind of game. Um and
these people are doing amazing work with
spreadsheets that's way beyond me. Um
but yeah, just uh to circle back like
the original inspiration for it was I
wanted a really really simple pen and
paper baseball game. Um and I actually
didn't have much of a background. I had
not played much Stratatic or like ABPA
or any of that. Like it was stuff I was
aware of, but I never dug into it
because it was confusing from like as an
outsider. I was like wait but what do I
buy? How much of it do I have to buy? um
and all of that because those you know
uh those business models are usually
built around like making sure that you
buy the new cards every single year.
>> Every year.
>> Yeah. Which is cool and it's it it
allows for like extremely high fidelity,
but it also that's a pretty big barrier
to entry. Um and so at that point I had
been playing like lots and lots of D100
Call of Cthulu. Um and watching a lot of
really bad Mets baseball. And so I was
like I need to combine these two things.
Um, and so basically I wanted a system
that was so simple that I could just
like play it while I was hanging out
with my kid who at that point was about
one year old. Um, and you know, so I was
at home with him all the time. I was
kind of bouncing off the walls. It was
the middle of winter. Um, and I was like
really jonesing for baseball to start
and for spring to happen. And so I spent
really like the the actual like the core
of the game came together in like two
days. Um, I just like kind of hacked it
together.
uh figured out how it worked and was
able to put together like a D100 system
um based around the very simple fact
that batting average is a percentage and
a D100 gives you a percentage. So if you
roll a D100 against somebody's batting
average, you can figure out if they're
going to get a hit or not. And that was
kind of the the core of it and it's
gotten a little bit more complicated
since then, but the original game was
extremely simple. And um my original
idea was I want this to be able to
simulate most of what you'd see if you
went to the ballpark. Um, when I put up
the original Kickstarter, folks started
asking for slightly more complexity. And
so I ended up working it out to now it
can simulate just about everything you'd
see if you went to the ballpark. Not
everything everything, but just about
everything with reasonable accuracy. And
there are a few things that work in my
favor there. One is that baseball is a
stop start kind of game. Um, it every
atbat is a discrete event which makes it
really nice and easy for simulation. I
spent a long time trying to make a
soccer game and was never able to crack
it because soccer is fluid. Um there's
also the fact that in baseball, you know
what, like every batter is up there
trying to do the same thing. They're
trying to hit the ball.
>> Very simple. Whereas in soccer, a player
could be trying to, you know, stop a
pass. He could be trying to kick the
ball up field. He could be trying to
like hold up play. Like there's a
million different things, like a
functionally infinite number of things
that a soccer player can do. But in
baseball, it's actually like pretty
restricted, which is why, you know,
keeping score at a baseball game is
something you can do because there's
just only so many things that can
happen. Um, another thing that worked in
my favor is that there's already a
scorekeeping system in place for
baseball. Um, I've often joked that dead
ball is just my way of trying to trick
people into learning how to keep score
at baseball games because I really love
keeping score at baseball games. And
when I made Deadball, I'd only been
keeping score for a couple of years. So,
it actually sort of stemmed from my like
offseason urge to like be playing with
my scorebook and writing little letters
and numbers into little boxes. Um, so
the fact that that was a thing that
already existed that a certain type of
baseball fan who tends to slant toward
old-fashioned and nerdy, which is really
like my demographic cuz that's very much
what I'm like. Yep. Um, like they
already many of them already knew how to
keep score. even if they weren't doing
it all the time, it's something that
their uncle or their aunt taught them a
long time ago and they kind of remember
it. Um, and then there's also the the
other thing that really makes dead ball
work is that baseball is already so
random um that
baseball fans expect a little bit of
statistical noise and so they are okay
with you sit down to play and you've got
Shi Otani at the top of your lineup and
you know he's the best player that's
ever been but today he went 0 for four
and he struck out three times and it's
like well it happens because it happens.
Um, so like nobody's going to be like,
"This game is broken because Show Otani
didn't get a hit." It's like, "Well,
sometimes he doesn't get a hit." A lot
of the time he doesn't get a hit. Um,
but it still works. And uh, because
baseball is already sort of just like a
random number generator anyway, and
baseball fans are used to turning those
numbers into stories in their head. It
turns out that if you give them a fake
version of that, it triggers all the
same real the all the same stuff in
their brain that happens when they watch
baseball. So that by the end of a game,
when you look down at your score sheet,
at least for me, I feel like I was at
the game. You know, I'm looking down at
it and it's like I it feels
indistinguishable to me from a real game
that I went to, except that it only took
a half hour and I didn't have to spend
like 40 bucks on beer and hot dogs.
>> What? Yeah. Or more these days. I think
I think what I found fascinating is is
that it was a is dead ball is well
anyone who's a baseball fan it's a great
ingress point to playing what I consider
an analog version of baseball there's
lots of electronic digital versions of
it whether you want to play in the
computer or or on a video
>> lots of people yeah I keep it completely
analog lots of people have you know they
have found ways to play it on the
computer to make it easier to like save
their stats and like get into games
faster So there's a lot of people who
are really into, you know, tracking
season statistics and stuff like that,
which I think is super cool. But yeah,
for me it's all about just pen and
paper.
>> Yeah. And I still think of that even
that as analog. I was thinking like like
instead of playing like MLB 2K or
whatever like that. But but even with
that, um,
[clears throat] I think it's a great
entry point to a sports game for those
that come from an RPG background because
to your point, it's a D100 system. you
have the dice already and even if you
don't there's dice rollers for a mobile
you can get free dice rollers you know
dice roller
>> yeah so it's very easy to roll and to
play um
no disrespect to any of the other games
I love them um I love them out there but
um I recently moved so all my cards are
packed I haven't unpacked them yet um
but my books aren't and so Um,
>> yeah, you don't need much.
>> No, and with my Brewers having exited
much earlier than I had hoped. Um,
>> sorry about that.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that happened. Well, it
happens. You know, you're a Mets, you
know, if you're a Mets fan, you know how
you you felt pain. You felt more more
pain than I have. Um, you know, it's I
wanted to continue to play some and the
game gave me the opportunity to do that.
Um and like you said the community there
is even Facebook there's a big community
out there and not even you know like you
said you can go to the Discord um as
well. Um Reddit is out there. I've read
Reddit. I'm follow on Discord. It it's
just it's phenomenal the amount of
people out there that
>> Oh yeah. They're Yeah. They're the
sweetest people and they love the game
and they love talking about other stuff
tangentially related to the game. And
what's cool is how much better many of
them know the game than I do now. Like,
you know, there are some people who they
they have evolved whole um like add-ons
um for, you know, like to make defense
more elaborate or, you know, for like
multi-season play to like smooth that
stuff out. And so when people ask rules
questions in the dead discord, I will
usually let those guys feel it before
I'll jump in because they are living and
breathing it more on a day-to-day basis
than I am. U which is awesome. It's like
taking on a life of its own in in a way.
And it's also one of the really cool
things about uh pen and paper tabletop
is that um you know when I make rules
updates it they don't have they can
ignore them if they want to. It's not
like when your favorite video game
releases a patch and suddenly the way
that you like to play is all screwed up.
Like I put out the Dead Ball second
edition a few years ago which uh yeah
like it it sort of it simplified some
stuff that I didn't think was very
interesting. like it refined some of
that stuff and then it also like brought
together a lot of the rules from various
expansions and just put it all in one
place. And I also there's like a
tutorial in there to make it a little
bit easier for people to pick up. And
personally I prefer 2E. There's a lot of
people who prefer onee because it's a
little crunchier. It's a little weirder.
Um and I you know they love that and I
think it's so cool that they can keep
playing it that way and I can play it my
way and anybody else can you know make
you know mess with it however they want.
I always say as long as you uh play the
same for both teams, it's fair. So, you
can do whatever weird stuff you want in
there. And people do plenty of weird
stuff.
>> I you know, this is I I one of the
reasons we had reached out to you a long
time ago was is I at the time I was
traveling and I didn't get a chance now
that we've talked about it. I can't
believe I didn't bring this up before we
even hit record, but I was actually
flying out of Nashville cuz I was
working in Nashville at the time. Um and
sitting in the airport near um
what was like there's a there's a Gibson
restaurant bar.
>> Yep. [snorts]
>> Yep.
>> You know where it is. And because I flew
Southwest a lot and you know I tend to
watch to myself. I don't tend to like
gawk at what people have on their
computers but it was very clear that
someone had the PDF of Deadb
>> on their laptop screen. Um, I didn't
want to, you know, that the last thing I
wanted to do was say something because
then it would look like that I would be
that I was gawking at her their screen
when they were [laughter] trying to, you
know, but I was fascinated by it and I
wanted to say something to them. Um, but
um, they were probably close to my age
at the time, mid4s, later 40s. Um, and
I'm like, there he is. They're they're
playing or they're reading at an
airport. they don't have to worry about
cards if they if they're not using
actual dice, which I suspect they
weren't at an airport. They're probably
using a dice roller,
>> you know, that's what and you know, and
in Nashville, obviously, they're trying
to get their they're trying to get a
major league baseball team. Um, you
know, I just to me that was like, okay,
it there's there's a little bit of a
mainstream element now to the game where
if I'm seeing it sitting at in the
Southwest gates at in BNA
>> in 2020 2022.
Um, [laughter] I think it was 2022.
Yeah, that just it blew my mind.
>> Yeah. But yeah, it's supposed to be
super duper lightweight and um I like
there's a running joke on the Discord
where like because all I'm ever trying
to do is simplify it and all those guys
are ever trying to do is refine it and
expand it and like clarify edge cases
and stuff. And I think that's cool
because there's a tension between, you
know, when you're writing a rule book,
you want to make it as clear as possible
and as accessible as possible. um when
you are somebody who is playing a game
all the time, you want to add stuff and
make it, you know, more and more and
more intricate. And so it's been a fun
kind of balance to navigate that. So I'm
I'm the one who's always trying to pull
it back and be like just like let's keep
it simple, like we it doesn't matter.
Who cares? Just f make it up, whatever.
But obviously that's not the answer that
they're looking for. And so they come up
with their own answers. But it's the the
you know to get back to um you know the
difference between dead ball and some of
the other stuff that's out there is you
don't have to buy a new thing every year
because it's it's based on really simple
like back of the baseball card kind of
stats. So you can just look it up on
baseball reference or fan graphs. You
can play with real players. You can make
play with madeup players. Um I think
most of the people who have the longest
running leagues I think are fictional
players I think because they get
attached to those players and they those
stories kind of take on a life of their
own in the um Universal Baseball
Association kind of way. Um but then
there are a lot of people who will like
last year there was a guy who who
replayed the entire Arizona Diamondbacks
World Series season I think. Um, and so
yeah, he played 162 games, which is a
lot, but you know, if you do one a day,
it's about 30 40 minutes a day and you
could totally do it. It's easier than
watching a baseball game every day. But
it was really cool to see that guy um
following through on that and he was
posting about it in the Discord all the
time and he was comparing like this is
my record versus like the actual real
life Diamondbacks record and I think he
ended up running ahead of them a little
bit. So his the his dead ball team
played a little bit better than they did
in real life. So I was happy for him
there. We I've I had played like a
computer based a computer-based baseball
league going back now to going back now
what is it 35 years back to like the
days of what was Earl Weaver baseball.
>> Um it still exists. It runs on something
called out of the park baseball. Now a
friend of mine is
>> yeah friend of mine runs it now.
>> Um I've been out of it for a couple
years. It's morphed over the years, but
I found a notebook
from 1988
when I moved of our league before cuz
that was when we were doing dot matrix
printing and we had only so much ribbon
I think at the time [laughter]
>> where we would write our stuff out. So,
I'm actually in the process of taking
those 1988 teams and turning them into
dead ball teams.
>> Wonderful. Great.
And I'm going to run an analog version
of our original
um first year baseball league um from
eons ago just as something different
that's non
>> um non-digital.
>> So now in addition to all this gaming
with going back to the writing um you
have some projects that you have been
working on or are working on or are
coming out, right?
>> Yeah. So I have got a new book coming
out next year. It is not part of the
Westside series. It's a whole spanking
new series. It's called To Kill a Cook.
Um, and it is another historical New
York mystery, but this time it is set in
very much the real world. No more
supernatural stuff for me. It is New
York 1972, very much like dirty old New
York City, um, on the verge of economic
collapse. And it's about a food writer
who is sort of moving among the highest
echelons of like fine cooking um, and
fine dining in New York City. and who
finds her friend, mentor, idol, um the
best French chef in New York City with
his head cut off and encased in a big
perfectly molded blob of aspic. Um and
so she's got to find out who killed this
poor guy. Um so that is the first one.
It's called To Kill a Cook. That comes
out next year. I'm currently about a
week away from finishing the sequel,
which will be called Dead as Dirt to my
uh editor. I can't wait to get that off
my desk. I'm very excited about it. I I
don't want to spoil anything about that
one, but um Tequilla Cook is coming out
on February 3rd. I'll be do doing some
events in New York City, uh
Philadelphia, Nashville, and Houston,
>> which will be exciting. I've never been
to Houston, so I'm really looking
forward to that.
>> I'll be there for about 20 hours, but it
should be a fun 20 hours. Um, and that
has been really cool because whereas
when I was working on the Westside
books, I had kind of an intuitive
understanding of like 1920s stuff just
because I feel like that's a thing that
to a certain extent everybody when you
say 1920s stuff, people get pictures in
their minds of like jazz age, gangsters,
flappers,
silent movies, all that stuff. Um, but
the early 70s was a little bit hazier
for me and so it was really fun to dig
into the historical research there. Once
again, combing through the New York
Times archives, although the 1970s times
is a lot less amusing than the 1920s
times. It was a little bit more of a
professional operation by then. Um, but
I spent a lot of time reading old
restaurant reviews and old restaurant
menus and memoirs of chefs and just like
learning about all of this great weird
cooking. And um the reason that it takes
place in the early '7s is because I
think that is a moment when you've got
like very strange like 1950s60s fine
dining that is still around, but you've
also got really weird like let's put
everything in jello kind of cocktail
party food that is still like very
prominent. But also at that time you
have sort of the first shoots of what
would become what we think of as like
fine dining today with like seasonal
cooking and like paying more attention
to freshness of ingredients and all of
that stuff. So it's like a real
crossroads point and um my hero Bernese
Black is like right in the middle of it
and she's trying to solve a mystery. So
it's it's been like a very very fun era
to explore and I've been kind of that's
where my head has been at for the last
two or three years between that first
book and now the sequel. Any any fondue?
>> Lots of fondue.
>> All right. It's You got to have this.
You got to have fondue if it's 70s, man.
>> Yeah. Absolutely. People love fondue. I
mean, you know, what's not to love about
hot cheese?
>> Hot cheese [laughter] and hot cheese and
toast.
>> Yeah. Like bits of meat.
>> Yeah. I I was, you know, I was born in
74, so I'm I'm old enough that I was
very, very little.
>> Um, and I remember my parents having
fondue parties and thinking to myself,
"This is disgusting."
>> [laughter]
>> um as a little kid and thinking to and
and and as a little kid never wanting to
go to bed but knowing those were the
nights that I really was happy I was
going to bed. [laughter] Um
you know so but
and [clears throat] where and so for
folks will they'll be able to get a link
to um the book you said is coming out
early next year then.
>> Yep. February 3rd. So that'll be
available you know wherever books are
sold as folks like to say. So, go to
your local bookstore, bang on the glass,
demand that they pre-order you a copy of
Tequilla Cook. It will also be available
in audio book. I got to do one of my
favorite parts of publishing traditional
publishing.
>> You narrate your own book?
>> Oh, no, no, no. They uh they didn't want
me to do that. Um, [laughter] for one
thing, I'm not a professional, but also
it's a woman narrator, so I don't think
that my
>> my particular base would quite work, but
um no, but I got to help pick the uh
narrator, and that's always really fun.
They'll send you Oh,
>> cool.
>> Yeah. The way it works is they so they
they uh you know there's a whole audio
production team at Penguin Random House
and they're amazing at what they do. And
so they um will send me like four
different actors who have each read like
the first half a chapter. So we get like
two or three minute clips of them doing
not just the main character but also we
get to hear a little bit of them doing
like other characters voices. This book
has got several French people. So you
know we get to hear get a sense of like
what do their French accents sound like?
How hard do we want them to hit the
French accent? like do we want to take a
light touch with it or go a little bit
heavier? Um, and getting to listen to
them and try to figure out like cuz
they're all amazing at their jobs. All
these actors are tremendous. But getting
to listen to them and figure out like
okay now this one I think she's really
getting like the humor of it or like
this one really has like the attitude
that I'm imagining with Bernice and it's
really really fun and I can't wait to
hear the full audio book because the
actor we picked is amazing.
>> Now when you're going and visiting the
cities like you said New York, you said
Philly, Nashville, and Houston. Um, are
you hitting bookstores or are you
hitting
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I live in Philly, so
that one's easy. Um, and then I'll take
the train up to New York. I'll be at the
Mysterious Bookshop in lower Manhattan,
which is a mystery bookstore in
Manhattan, which is uh founded by Otto
Pensler, who is like one of the most
important figures in American mysteries
of the last half century. So, that's
going to be pretty cool. It's a
wonderful bookstore.
>> Um, then in Nashville, I'll be at
Parnasses Books, which is the big
bookstore down there that's owned by
Anne Patchet, and it is like in my
parents neighborhood. I've been there a
million times. Terrific bookstore. I've
done an event there before. And then in
Houston, I'll be at another mystery
bookshop. Um and uh yeah, so that that
will be like the crowd there. So, I'll
get to meet a bunch of mystery fans.
I'll probably need to leave space in my
duffel bag so that I can bring home some
books because if I'm going to all these
different mystery bookstores, I'm going
to be doing some shopping. Um, although
I guess maybe I'll bring copies of my
book and I'll leave those behind and
then I'll, you know, have room make room
for some, you know, Pety James or
Raymond Chandler or whatever.
>> Drop some off, pick some up. I always
like I always like asking because
because we love independent bookstores.
So, always being able to mention
especially folks that are in the area
that
>> are around um can know
um can know and can keep an eye out for
when you're going to be there or and if
they haven't visited those bookstores
before.
>> Um
>> all wonderful spots. I mean, you know,
there's there's there's no such thing as
a bad independent bookstore.
>> No.
>> Any place you go into, you're going to
find something good. you're going to
meet somebody who's just excited to be
there and excited to tell you about what
they're reading. They're wonderful
places just like libraries.
>> Now, with with writing and obviously you
have a you have a little one and
everything like that. Do you still have
time to game at all or
>> not enough? Um I So, we moved to
Philadelphia right before the pandemic
and between the move and the pandemic, I
have like not been doing um like group
RPGs except for like very occasionally
over Zoom for a long time. So I have
been exploring uh some solo RPGs um like
Iron Sworn and um those games which
which is a big influence on Letters to
the Stars which you mentioned earlier um
and
>> playing a lot of Dead Ball frankly. I
really like it. [laughter]
>> Letters to the Stars. I've I have not I
have not purposefully purposely glanced
over it. Letters to the Stars was was um
you know that one I'll be honest with
you that one came up um after my
interest in dead ball. That was in that
was my intro to you.
>> Um you know how did that one come about
as you know?
>> Let's see. So Letters to the Stars that
that came out early last year. So that
was early 2024. And that game is what I
called an epistlary RPG which is a fancy
way of saying it's letter writing. And
so like Deadpool, you know, I'm really
kind of a solo gamer at heart. You know,
I had a long time while I was running um
RPGs for my friends back in New York
City and I've uh and you know, I
released Comrades, which is an RPG, but
really I'm fundamentally antisocial when
it comes to gaming. And when I'm when
I'm gaming, it's cuz I don't want to
talk to anybody else a lot a lot of the
time. Um, and so I've uh I've always
kind of slanted towards solo games. Even
when I, you know, I play a lot of video
games and I never play multiplayer
games. Like ever since I was a kid, I've
just got no like I've got friends who
always like, "Do you want to play
multiplayer? Do you want to play
multiplayer?" It's like, "No, I want to
I want to not talk to anybody. I I don't
want to have to worry about your
schedule. I really just want to like
check out." Um, and so Letters to the
Stars was my attempt at coming up with I
think I call it a solo RPG you can play
with your friends. Um,
>> yep. And the premise is that you are the
captain of a spaceship that is going on
like a lengthy and dangerous mission. It
provides all sorts of complications,
threats that you have to deal with to
try to keep your spaceship from falling
apart and keep your crew from falling
apart. And at the end of each turn,
you're you have to create either like a
captain's log or journal entry or if
you're playing it with somebody else, a
message to them. But the uh there's like
a whole thing built in around like
delays in time. So that the longer
you're playing, the longer your messages
to your uh fellow players are delayed.
Um and there's various time scales that
it goes into in the book. But basically,
it's it's just supposed to be a way of
encouraging people to communicate with
each other um and also play a game at
the same time because, you know, I've
played some journaling games and I think
they're awesome. There are a lot of
other cool letterw writing games out
there like I forget the name of it, but
there's a really cool like Jane Austin
one um that's all about uh writing
letters to each other and this is sort
of the same idea but it's in space. Um
and it was very fun to put together and
also just really really fun to test
because the you know from the first time
I tested it I was like oh this is going
to work. I knew it was going to work
because I got back letters from my
friend um who was playing it at the same
time and the stuff that she was coming
up with was stuff I would never come up
with. It was completely different from
the way that I would interpret whatever
threat it was that she was facing. Um,
and that's like the coolest thing about
playing games with your friends is they
come up with stuff that you wouldn't.
And that's the the reason not to only
solo game. But, um, so this is it's uh
it was designed to be like an RPG for
people who are have friends who are far
away or who are otherwise like difficult
to communicate with. Um, and uh, I think
I I was really happy with the way it
turned out. It's been fun to work on and
fun to play. Yeah, I mean it is a it is
Jason and I are struck because of the
time with everything that we've got
going on and then you know the podcast
was meant to compliment gaming. it ended
up replacing gaming unfortunately
[laughter] in many ways. But um I just I
found I just love the idea of like a
journal type gaming solution because
much like you I'm I like the idea of
solo gaming like I picked up for um um
the one ring from Free League. Um they
have what's called the Strider
>> um adaptation which is the solo.
>> That's so cool. What a great idea. Yeah,
there's so you can actually solo the one
ring. Um, and even for like Star Trek
Adventures, they have what they call the
captain's log, which is a solo version
of it for Star Trek.
>> So, when you're doing that, how do you
like to keep your log? Like, do you like
to handwrite? Do you like to talk to a
recorder? Like, what's your preferred? I
I actually what's funny is is Jason and
I have talked about it and um I tried to
do it electronically and I don't think I
have one around right now, but I ended
up going with um Oh, maybe I do. Nope, I
guess I don't. Um I end up picking up
like a dot journal.
>> Oh, I love those.
>> And I like to write um just as an
exercise to get away from the computer.
Now, that being said,
>> it's nice to have that option.
>> Yeah. Now, that being said, just the way
transcription and everything is working
these days, um I might have to cheat at
some point based off of time.
>> But, um for me, being able to like go
and take a book, take two books
and walk away, have the phone if I need
to communicate with the planet,
>> it feels really good to just be at a
table with like nothing but a little bit
of paper and a pen. It's a nice feeling.
There's there's just it that's just to
me is is relaxing.
>> Oh yeah. It quiets your brain down so
fast. You don't think about how how
stressful it is even just having a phone
in your pocket or having the computer
open until suddenly you don't and then
it's just like oh wow. Yeah. It also
it's easy. You can take it to the park.
You can take it to the coffee shop.
Yeah. And I'm like you sometimes and for
me I always tell people when I'm when I
am interacting and and this is not a
knock on anyone. It's just when I'm
interacting, my switch is on
>> and there are times where I've you know
with the work I do and you know I
sometimes need to flip the switch off.
>> It's important. [clears throat]
>> Yeah.
>> And I need to not interact and sometimes
not interacting means not computering
either. And so having pen and paper and
everything like that is and that was the
the allure of dead ball and that's the
lure of letters to the stars and
>> um some of these solo these solo games.
So,
>> I mean, there's so many different
beautiful solo games out there that
people are writing. There's a newsletter
I get called The Soloist, which is just
about solo games that come out cuz folks
make them all the time because I think
there's a lot of very antisocial game
designers out there and it's it's just
yeah, it's it's a it's a wonderful
community and it's a yeah, it's a
community of people who don't want to
talk to each other, which I respect.
>> As we as we wrap up here, because I want
to be cognizant of time without I don't
want any any spoilers. That's not our
thing. But, you know, with everything
you've got going on, um um you know, do
you have like a wish list of projects or
anything like that that you'd kind of
like to work on? Um
>> Oh, absolutely.
>> But, but time is kind of keeping you
from doing it or
>> Yeah. The two I always wish I had more
time for Deadball. Um like the wonderful
thing about writing books for a big
publishing house is you get deadlines.
The annoying thing is you have
deadlines. So when I've got, you know,
I've got this book coming out next year,
which has been the main thing that I've
been working on for the last 18 months,
24 months, something like that. So I
haven't been able to put out a big
Deadbolt expansion in a year or two. Um,
and there's a lot of different Deadbol
ideas I have kicking around that I just
haven't had time to implement. Luckily,
as I said earlier, there are folks out
there on the Discord who are making
really cool Deadball stuff that I don't
have anything to do with. And in fact,
they've put together the second ever
Dead Ball Con, which will be happening
in January. It'll be virtual on the
Discord. Yeah, everybody should come
out. It should be a lot of fun. Be a lot
of people talking about games,
organizing games. I'll probably talk a
little bit and other people will I think
there there will be people giving talks
about their spreadsheets, which if
you're not into that sounds terrifying
and if you are into that sounds
incredibly cool, cuz it is incredibly
cool the stuff these people do. Um, but
uh so I would love to have more time for
that. I would also I have been wanting
for a really long time to make two
different games. One is I would love to
make a game that is like a mayor
simulator, like a tabletop game where
you're a mayor.
>> Because ever since I was a kid, I've
loved Sim City, City Skylines, stuff
like that. But the problem with those
games is that
>> you are running like an imaginary city.
Like when you're the mayor of a city,
you don't start with an empty town. You
know, when you're the mayor of a city,
you come in and you take over a city
that's been around for a long time and
it's got a million different problems.
And um so I've always wanted to try to
figure out a way to make a tabletop game
where you are trying to contend with
some of the real life types of problems
that a mayor might deal with. So that is
one. And then I've also been kicking
around an idea for a game um where you
are a producer during the golden age of
Hollywood trying to make movies without
losing your mind. Um so that is another
one. I made a lot of notes on that in
the spring and I haven't quite gotten
that testable yet, but um hopefully when
I have a little bit of time I'll uh be
able to get to it. I find that when I
finish a big creative project, suddenly
there's it's like I have just closed a
really like RAM intensive computer
program and suddenly I've got so much
processing power available in my brain
and it can be hard to slow down. So I
will immediately like pivot to some
other project and work on that
feverishly for like 3 weeks. So I'm
hoping that when I finish the draft of
Dead is Dirt um I can go back to working
on the Hollywood game because I think
it's a fun idea and um I've wanted to
make something like that since I was a
kid. I used to play a sharewware
computer game called Sim Cinema in like
the late 90s and my cousin and I were
obsessed with it.
>> It was it was like it was I think it was
Mac only. Um and it was very simple. It
it was sharewware back when Sharewware
was a thing. um long before freeto play
and uh you know you would like you ran a
little movie studio and you would come
up with franchises you know so you'd
make a movie
>> open up and there was like a I want to
say there was like a marquee that
started when you opened up cuz I played
Sim Tower and and Sin Cinema. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Sim Tower was incred. Yeah. So Sim
Tower those like it wasn't a Maxis game.
It was just some dude just made it and
it was the the thing I remember about it
was that the cheapest actress you could
get was Julianne Moore. She cost $2
million. And so we put Julian Moore in
all of our movies, [laughter]
you know, schllocky horror, um, cheesy
sci-fi, whatever. We drag poor Julian
Moore into it over and over [laughter]
and over again.
>> Sim cinema. Oh,
>> it was beautiful. Yes. So, I've always
wanted to recreate that feeling of like
the feeling that you get from like
letting a an imaginary franchise evolve
the same way that you do in Dead Ball,
but with old movies because I'm a big
movie nerd.
>> That is awesome. Well, thanks for
joining us today. I would I would love
to have you back sometime because I
think this idea we didn't even we didn't
really I didn't really want to hit too
hard on it because we would have gone
down a complete rabbit hole on the idea
of of your gaming background and
everything like that and how that
influenced but that is such a
fascinating topic.
>> Um and would love to have you on again
to chat more sometime
>> but thank you again for for your time
and appreciate it and
>> my pleasure. Thanks for having me. We'll
we'll have you back as your new projects
come out.
>> Looking forward to it.
[music]
>> Thank you again, Will, for joining us.
Phenomenal. We hit like I I mentioned in
the interview and I think I said
offline, we I tried to like like have us
hit on lots of different topics and I
don't feel like we were able to get deep
enough into some of them. So, we
definitely have to have you back because
there's so much more we could talk about
and I want to have you back so that
Jason can join us, too.
>> I was just going to say I apologize that
I wasn't here. Uh, Will, thanks for
coming on. I I I'm really looking
forward to talking with you uh when
you're back. Absolutely. But great job,
Red.
>> So, yeah, I I definitely do. But let's
head over to to Lon Cafe. But and since
uh
>> um I'll let you I'll let you kick off um
>> this time around and what's what have
what's been on your desk or in your mind
space?
>> Well Well that's a long conversation but
we can ignore most of that. So,
as this this uh episode, as it drops, it
is very very early, the wee hours, you
might say, of December 2025,
>> but uh we are obviously recording in
November. And and so
>> very close to Thanksgiving. Not quite
there yet, but
>> gobble gobble. Yes. And so
as we record today, this evening, we are
just a bit more than 24 hours past, wait
for it, our second session.
>> Ah,
>> of Star Trek Adventures, our homebrew
game, uh, Ethics of the Fathers.
>> Yes.
>> Ethics. Wait, is that what I called it?
Yeah.
>> Uh,
>> ethics. I I should know that. Good job.
Um, ethics of our fathers. That's what
it is. Ethics of our fathers. Uh, and we
have had we, uh, I am GMing. You are
playing. You are doing a heck of a job.
It's very, very much a sandbox game. I
think at this point it's clear it's
going to be a three session arc, a
conerto if you will. uh where I
mentioned this yesterday but but but
that's how I'm thinking of this when we
were wrapping up because we had the
first session
uh better than a month ago maybe 6 weeks
ago and then it took some time
>> and then yesterday afternoon we had our
second session when we when we went just
about to the right this crescendo just
about to the climax or one could really
argue we really paused like scene ended
at the climax or the approach of the
climax and right.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And then and then next next
session which I'm hoping is very very
soon cuz I want to finish the story
wherever you lead us. Then we're going
to have the the fulfillment of that
climax and I don't know what that is
because this is a sandbox adventure that
I designed for you so that you can just
take it essentially anywhere you want
and you are and you are playing. Let me
just tell you everybody that Brad is
playing this really consumate Starfleet
captain and is really really like you
are playing your PC as that PC. And
let's face it, we're both guilty of not
always doing that so well in any game.
>> No, we tend to we get a little silly.
>> We were we were we we were talking about
this earlier pre-recording in relation
to something else. And I always joke we
when we play we play fun but in some
cases we play what we what I just I just
made up a I just said serious fun and
I've been playing this as serious fun
>> as opposed to our typical character
alignment tends toward chaotic stupid.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.
>> Yeah. But yeah, serious fun. And so you
are really your PC is really embodying
it. And then the third session, it's
just going to make sense hopefully in
the next week or two of resolving the
crisis however you do. I don't know
what's coming, which is kind of neat.
And then we'll have the day numa, which
will, you know, theoretically leave it
for a future adventure. But that's what
Brett, that's what's been on my mind and
my desk literally and metaphorically
because it's been so much fun actually
being able to play with you. It's we we
you know we put so much time into Dice
Mine and we talk about this all the time
but we've actually both had the time
lately to dedicate and we're only going
for like an hour and a half a pop but
it's it's I think it's been kind of
perfect like like and we're treating it
as scenes and it's just giving us good
practice and good time. So that's what's
been on my desk. What's been on your
desk?
>> Yeah. I Well, let me follow up with that
and then I'll say I think I think what I
find the most fun with it is when I'm
interacting with my bridge crew, which
is you playing the different characters,
the different NPC PCs.
>> Yep.
>> Um and and I rely as a Starfleet
captain.
>> Um I utilize my bridge crew based off of
their expertise in those areas.
>> Yep.
>> Um and I ask them questions.
>> Yep.
um and get their feedback before making
decisions. Um I actually deferred to
them in one of my last decisions right
before before the the culmination of the
the second session episode.
>> And I told you I was really trying to
play the NPCs true.
>> Yeah.
>> Right before just how would they
actually respond? Yep.
>> Yeah. So,
>> and I would just say to our to our
benefit of the game like metagaming
>> Mhm.
>> I think it's been like between these
sessions 5 to 10% of the time like 90
plus%
we and especially you have just been in
game
playing and making decisions and
rolling. There's been almost no side
chatter like okay wait let me ask
questions. It's been all in character
>> that now that you mention it. I You're
right. We don't we don't we don't
metagame or step out of character.
>> I don't we haven't virtually at all. Um
once we start the game I'm in. Now we
don't do voices or anything like that.
>> No. But but you are in
>> but we are but we are you know talking
and speaking and working within within
the context of the game.
the whole time.
>> Um other than when you narrate within
the game. Um
>> yeah. Yeah.
>> That's the that's the only air quote,
>> right?
>> You know, non in non- in-game ingame,
>> right? But it's still not But we're
still in metagaming. It's just providing
visuals, if you will.
>> Yeah. You're only Yeah. And then and
that's when you're like throwing up a
visual which like today of the of like
the the
>> well you know don't say anything because
remember we have a surprise coming
January.
>> Yes. You have you have you had some
striking visuals today.
>> So yesterday. Yeah. Yeah. That was
pretty cool yesterday. That worked well.
So
>> So okay. So what's on your desk?
>> On my desk. So, what's interesting is is
um ironically the other night, this is a
kind of funny, but um the other night I
was I was laying in bed and I heard gunk
and I'm like,
>> "Oh, no.
>> Oh, something happened in my office."
>> Uhoh.
>> And I came in and um one of my
bookshelves. Now, you as well know with
my move, I've put up some temporary
shelving,
>> right? Yeah. quite
>> because because I'm not going to be
building permanent shelving until next
year,
>> right?
>> Well, one of the temporary shelving I
think started to yield to the weight of
the books.
>> RPG books can be heavy indeed.
>> Oh, yeah. Absolutely. And that was what
what the case
>> um it didn't come completely down. Okay.
But um it started to fall like some of
the stuff on top
>> had like had like yielded forward, slid
behind, started to slide the shelf
forward.
>> Not what you want in a shelf.
>> No. So I came in here and at like 2 in
the morning moved stuff around.
>> Um got stuff off the shelf so I didn't
hear like large noises a little bit
later in in the middle of the night.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um, so I had to move some
books around. Um, and then I grabbed a
different shelf and I had to kind of
rearrange the room a little bit to
account for it temporarily just to get
me through the winter.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, until the spring. So, um, it's a
little disorganized, a little less
organized than I had liked like. But
what it did was is I had moved some of
like the box sets
>> together. Okay. just based off of the
sizing of the shelves and how the shelf
sizes were.
>> Yep.
>> And um I got out and I started looking
at
um the Marvel Multiverse.
>> Oh, we haven't talked about that in
quite some time.
>> No, we haven't. And we have some other
games that are on the docket that we're
going to play. But, um, it just reminded
me and I pulled out some of the Marvel
material and I have the set of Marvel
stuff and and we'll have our we'll have
our our prior guest Matt Forbeck on
again.
>> Yes.
>> Um, sooner rather than later to talk
about all things Marvel and
>> That's right.
>> and more.
>> Um, but I got digging back into the
Marvel stuff and I am just
>> Good for you. absolutely just fascinated
[snorts]
by the detail that he and the team
>> really
>> put together with it
>> and just thought about and I was talking
to my son because I've still been trying
to find a way to get to to game with my
son a little bit.
>> Yeah.
>> And he's still and I messaged him and
he's still intrigued on playing a game
if he can either play Deadpool or
Moonnight
>> and
>> Oh, interesting. Okay.
>> So, um, we have some other things that
we're going to work on, but I've
[clears throat] pondered trying to
utilize like a canned adventure or
something like that and seeing if
>> there's a way to well, there's a way to
do that cuz my son is a big fan of Oscar
Isaac's Moonnight.
>> Good actor.
>> U, yeah, he's a phenomenal actor and
that series is
>> I never saw the end
>> really. I I we watched it as a family
and then I think I was traveling for I
don't know a conference or something and
so I just like I just never saw the last
I I think I missed like the last two or
three episodes. I never watched it until
um probably about a month and a half ago
>> and then and then I binged it
>> because because my son convinced me to.
>> Um
>> and I was I I thought it was
fascinating.
>> Man, how have we not talked about that?
>> Yeah, it's a really interesting. It's
really interesting and different, but
I'm going back and watching a lot of
series and and stuff that now I have a
little bit of extra time for.
>> Good for you. So, yeah, that's really
been for the just for the for the last
week. That's really what's been I've
I've been on a little bit of a Marvel
kick, but um I've watched a couple
movies. I'll I'll save this for a future
episode. Um I've [snorts] been watching
some movies that have had more of like a
high fantasy spin to them.
>> Oh, we need to talk about that.
>> Yeah. Um
and uh um I don't know if I'm ready to
play high fantasy right now. I'm more in
a a sci-fi or
>> Yep. Yep.
>> tech fantasy type of mindset, but
>> um
>> I don't know why. I just I've been
interested in in like high fantasy
movies for whatever the case may be.
Just for fun kind of like entertainment,
not anything super deep.
>> Yeah. No, good for you. It's We'll have
to compare notes.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> All right, everybody. Uh as as we
prepare for winter here in the northern
hemisphere, uh you know the deal. We
will see you before too long. In the
interim, be well, stay well. We'll see
you in a couple of weeks.
[music]
>> [music]
[music]
