[Music]
Welcome to Dyson Mind, a podcast hosted
by Brad Brown and Jason Kaufman to
explore the intersection of life, games,
science, science, music, philosophy, and
creativity through interviews with
leading creatives. All are welcome in
this
[Music]
space. This is going to be a more
organic episode because we are we have
reached the end of year four. Year four
of Dyson Mind. We are moving on to year
five. So we'll do a little bit of a
retrospective, but I mean our really in
effect our retrospective is our prior
episodes. So and we're going to spend
more of our time for this one talking
about year five thoughts for year five,
right? Yeah. And and I think, you know,
from my perspective, if you think about,
you know, year four, it really started
with um Jeff Ashworth, who was one of
our first ever Yeah. guests coming back
after. Yeah, it was a good discussion.
We got it. It was. But but I I kind of
alluded to this. I didn't get to finish
my thought and I I paused it before you
hit record.
Um, I look at the people that we've been
able to have on as guests in our fourth
year
and I look at the names of these people.
Yeah. And I think how lucky we are just
based off of how we've been able to grow
and get these people to join us. Mhm.
Um, in year four, you know, I I I think
like writers from Planetary Radio. Yes.
She was so much fun. I mean, I listen to
her every week, but she was so much fun.
I see I see her in, you know, now on FA,
if I'm on Facebook, they have because
I'm I follow the Planetary Society on um
on their Facebook page and everything.
Yeah. Um, I see her popping up on the
Planetary Society commercials with with
Bill Nye and everything like, "Oh, she
was on our podcast." I know. I um But
you think of who we've had. So, we've
had we've had broadcasters, we've had
game creators, we've had game designers
and producers, managers. We've had
scientists. We've had marketers. We've
had marketers. Yes. Sophie from Modifius
joined us. We had our first game
marketer. Mhm.
So, we had one of our first guests who
was a game podcaster and is now a
talking about dungeon master parenting.
Shelley Mazanobyl. Yep. Yep. Shelley,
you are awesome. So, um I mean, we just
had if you go back and look at our, you
know, go look at our our list from from
episode 121 forward. Is that 121? No,
120. 120. You said we have been so
fortunate to talk with such a diverse
range of lovely, interesting,
intelligent people. The one thing I will
say
is over a year four I think I think and
we we talk a lot about this on our
episodes of course Brad, but I think a
big shift for us that really sunk in
over year four was our growing focus on
lit RPG. uh right like not like dude but
as RPGs as literature as reading
material and and that that really turned
both of us on like that that kind of hit
a groove and and the kind of the the the
close cousin to that as using RPGs to
generate literature which is something
that predated year 4 but really has Um,
I mean, the idea of of the merger of
RPGs and literature, we're seeing it,
and it's always been there, but we're
seeing those creative
venues.
Um, and I don't think it's just us
finding it. No, I think we are I think I
think we are some of the few who are
articulating it and trying to put it out
there to generate discussion. Yeah. But
and to just, you know, have fun. But but
I think you're right and I think
increasingly we're having guests, not
just Jim Johnson, we're having more and
more guests who get this and are
thinking and talking about this, but
there aren't a whole lot of venues for
it. And just to back up for a sec, like
to go a little meta, um, in a good way,
but to go a little meta, I think meta
doesn't have people people when you
think No, I was I was joking about
Zuckerberg. Were you going to think I
was going to make fun of you or No, no,
no. I was joking about Zuckerberg. Um,
okay. Uh, but look, I'm on Facebook all
the time. Who am I? Yeah, I know. I
know. You know, let he who is without a
good Wi-Fi signal cast the first stone.
Um, so but I think back
to our original impetus for Dyson mind
and and it remains true like this is the
through thread. I think it's just
blossoming in an unexpected direction
that we from day one have been really
really interested in game mechanics
because they're just fun because we're
data nuts. We're data nerd data nuts
whatever you want. We love the idea of
mechanics and looking at how the
randomness of a dice roll or the
non-random, right? How it's like life.
Yes. But and from day one on Dice and
Mind, we've been taken with the role of
storytelling. Yes. And I and I say this
as someone
who who doesn't really and probably
never will really exist in a fiction
space. I mean, in my head, I'm in that
space all the time, right? Like, you
know, cuz it's only a matter of time
until Star Trek, like we catch up with
that history. One hopes. Maybe not these
days. But, I mean, ultimately, isn't our
whole thing about RPG and lit, isn't
that really ultimately
about storytelling, right? Like the
ability, I mean, not to simplify it, but
like like Yeah. like just the ability of
through these games to tell these
stories
or just telling stories and then
figuring out how to put them into the
games or just that reciprocity. But like
when we say literature, I mean, we're
we're obviously talking to people who
are way more articulated and
knowledgeable about this than we are.
But like at the end of the day, it's
still that storytelling element that I
think hooked us from the beginning.
Yeah. I mean, you know, I I think
everyone who's played or plays currently
knows that
um you know, even if you're not putting
pen to paper or you're not putting, you
know, you're not putting index stylus to
ind stylus to tablet or index finger to
F key if you're using the proper form of
when you're typing. Um which it looks
like you darn because you're allowed
looking at your keyboard. It looks like
I'm like, wait, I got a I don't remember
the lineup. I mean, I I got pretty good
form imposter, but but but you know, if
you think about it, if you're not even
doing that and you're just telling the
story organically and you're sitting
down with your kids and playing a game,
whether you were doing it with your with
your kids and your nephews and playing,
you were weaving a story. Yeah.
Absolutely. you know, now it's a matter
of of people doing that and now taking
that
creativity and putting it into a form
like a game. And um I just know and and
the the the one that just is that just
is like the most like in your face in a
good way in an absolute phenomenal way
reminder of that is like when Michael Lo
came out and talked about Infinibbricks.
Yeah. with us. Yes. You know, there's an
example of taking household toys or
whatever. Yeah. And so clever using that
and a very simple mechanic and turning
that into a game and being able to tell
stories. Yeah. Or or our friend Michael
Dizmuk. Well, and he plays with his
with, you know, his nephews and all
that. How he he uses AI tools. He was
using AI tools before anyone I really
knew. Really early adopter. Yeah. And he
takes those he takes his games that he
plays with them and he turns them into
stories so that his the kids can read
them afterwards. Yeah. Isn't that cool?
So, um Okay. So, let me ask you a
question then. So, let me I'll put you
on the spot. We we started talking about
this right before we hit record, but you
and I really haven't talked it out.
Although, I mean, I think we're very
much on the same wavelength. So we
purposely haven't talked some of this
out because we wanted it to be an
organic discussion whether absolutely
absolutely otherwise we would right we
we would have wasted otherwise yeah so
as we record we are just a few days past
the fourth four-year anniversary for
Dyson Mind and as this drops it'll be
just like what's the actual date is it
the it uh 411 11 and so this will drop
uh 10 days after so as this episode
drops we are just starting year five.
So, let me ask you, my friend. Mhm.
On the spot here, what and and this is
this doesn't have to be like specific
answers, right? But what are your hopes
or dreams for Dyson Mind in year five?
I think we have to dive
into the creative uses of AI tools. We
have to talk more about that. We've seen
that with with um with Michael
um someone who I've reconnected with
through professional endeavors who I've
talked with you about. Um Steve, you
know who you are. Um he has been showing
me some of the stuff that he's been
doing right with his gaming. I haven't
even had a chance to talk to you about
some of the stuff recently. We've both
been busy again. Yes. Um by the way, he
by the way he I have to find it. He
showed me the the stuff he did with with
the Millennium Falcon stuff. I have to
find Oh, man. You were telling me about
that. Yeah. But ultimately, he was
showing me
um some of the games that a recent game
that he played where he used AI tools to
generate visuals and things like that. I
mean, so so
and and the stuff that he was reading
and showing me, first of all, he's a
phenomenal storyteller. Um and two um
the use of that to augment his
storytelling. He's a phenomenal
storyteller without AI. Yeah. Um he uses
these tools to augment his ability and
make his storytelling even better. So I
think having those type of discussions
Yeah. in year five I think is going to
be important because um and I know we
have people out there that we've talked
with before that are using them now. And
I know we have people that we haven't
talked with that are on our radar
because we talked about that um that
we're going to have on that we're going
to do that um there are games out there
and some people and some writers. Yes.
um that um we want to talk to and I
think you know you and I have talked
about this um the idea of uh creativity
y in year five is important just because
um
without without being too much of a a
downer you know we're in a tough
environment and I think expressing
creativity getting down and whether
you're writing or drawing or or music,
whether it's on a recorder or an
instrument, whatever it is. Yeah. I
think is that that can generate
positivity both within yourself or for
those around you. So, I think any way we
can do that, I think we're doing
something good. And and I go so far as
to suggest that being creative and I
mean it literally like creating like
being creative in one
venue has major potential to influence
and feed creativity in other venues. So
like your time on the guitar one way or
another can only benefit your time at
the gaming table. Yeah. Or you know what
I'll be honest and vice versa. when when
you've talked about at in the in the
past when you've talked about, you know,
playing on the piano, it's gotten and
it's reminded me I need to go and get on
my guitar and then I get on my guitar
and I play, you know, so there's there's
cross-pollination there, too. Yeah. Um,
and let's How many times have we talked
with guests who have talked about
writing? Oh, yeah. And creativity and
stuff and we've gotten off the phone and
we've wanted to write or we've actually
written. Yep.
So, um I think the more we can talk to
those folks that are creating, um
hopefully that for those that listen, um
that spurs them to be creative and
selfishly maybe it it helps those who
are the guests, it reminds them that
what they're doing is important. Nice.
So AI as a tool,
creativity, obviously we're going to
we're going to have writing like we're
going to keep talking about writing
obviously. And and and I think the other
thing too is is is um you know
um there are some games that we have
been meaning to get back to talking
about. Um y you know that or games that
we haven't talked about that we have had
on our radar that we want to get to. Um
and those are coming um really in effect
in in Q3. So um
yeah, you know, and and to be honest
with you, with us doing a show every
other week, the quarters and the months
come quick because there's only two
shows a month. They do. Maybe three if
it's a fiveweek month. That's that's
that's exactly that's exactly right. How
about you? What what what have what
what's been kind of like um things that
maybe you know let me let me qu let me
I'm going to actually kind of like take
the question and maybe kind of adjust it
a little bit. Are there things that um
we have done in the past that maybe you
want to re-emphasize in in year five?
That's a part A and part B. Are there
things that have been on your mind that
we haven't hit on yet that you think we
should in year five?
Those are good questions. Okay. So,
things we have and I think we should do
more of and things we haven't and we
need to that. Okay. Okay.
So, boy, that's tougher questions than I
would expect, honestly.
Um, I know I've I've talked about like
we've I've mentioned this to you time
and again over the the really for some
time uh at least the past year. I would
like to bring
in more uh creative individuals. Let me
rephrase that. I would like to bring in
creative individuals from
more franchises.
Um, so for example, I I really really
would like to bring in more uh about
Star Wars. Okay. Um, we had we had Bill
Smith on back
in back in 2022 back on in episode 70,
right? Yep. All West End Games. Oh my
god. And I mean, I truly I truly felt as
if I were talking to royalty. I I really
I I mean I I really did. I I was That's
really the f And that's really the first
time that you spent time like
um I had to get off because I had
something but you stayed one-on-one
talking with him for quite a while.
Yeah. Good memory. We I He was It It was
Yes, it was it was fascinating. And I
think he offered to come back. Um I
would love Oh, I would think he would.
It would be good. Bill, I'm sure you're
not listening. you have much better
things to do. But we like I would love
to have Bill Smith. Now that's kind of a
hypersp specific example to use your
term, but I would love to have Bill
Smith on, but I I would like uh I would
like to address more in and around Star
Wars. The the franchise is huge. There's
nothing going on with the RPG right now
to our mutual shared chin. That said,
like I would love and I'm just I'm just
naming it. I I would very much like to
get someone from Edge Studio. Um, but uh
I would I would really really like to
get more people who are involved with
Star Wars at large. So that could be
RPG. Um, I would love to get a producer
from one of the shows. Um, someone who's
involved even with their books or
comics, right? I mean, it's Star Wars.
It's huge. There are so many creative
things happening and like you and I
aren't huge fans of everything that's
happening,
but there's Star Wars, there's new Star
Wars as as we record a week from now
andor season 2 will drop. It'll drop
tomorrow night when it's getting some
pretty the the previews have gotten
incredible have gotten some pretty
positive reviews. People are pretty
excited about it. And there's Star Wars
Underworlds,
right? And so and and then there are all
the comics and the books coming out. So
I I would like to very much uh get more
Star Wars the toilet paper, Star Wars
the baseball bat. Oh, the I I mean I'd
use them both. Yeah. Not at the same
time, but No. Um, but so I think things
like that where there are franchises
where we've we've barely touched. There
are all these different lines that we
spend so much time like it would be fun
to get more into Marvel. Although in all
fairness, we've we've been doing that.
Uh, so that's been going along. But so
things had Kelly, we just had Kelly on.
Mhm. Big time. So things like that would
be really interesting to me. Um, you
know, like Matt's talked about, uh, uh,
Matt Forwick's talked about the Marvel
RPG, stuff like that. It's like we we
we've been in that they've got some big
releases. They the the starter kit for
um the Marvel Multiverse Marvel
Multiverse RPG just um pre-orders just
opened up on Amazon for that. See, there
we go. Okay, hold on everybody. Brad's
walking over to his No, just kidding.
No, no, I don't have that one yet. I
Yep. He's he's making up an order. No.
Um, so, okay. So, I guess that's my
prime answer for what would I like us to
be doing more of, uh, that we've done.
Um, I'd really like to spend some more
time around dealing with people in and
around Star Wars and like some of the
other franchises. Again, there's just
there's so much going on right now.
Let's get into that creativity.
Um, your second question, what what
would I like us to be doing that we
haven't really explored? Yeah. Is there
anything you think that that um we
haven't we haven't touched on or we
maybe just tangentally touched on that
you think we need to dive into? I don't
know about diving into, but something
that I always really enjoy. Um, I would
like to occasionally spend an episode
looking at um two things. One, I'd like
to spend a little more time uh dealing
with dice mechanics again. Yeah. Uh
because some of our some of it's been
it's been quite a while. It's been quite
it's been quite a while and those have
been fascinating conversations and there
are there are mechanics out there right
now that you and I have talked about um
where well so like two weeks from this
episode we're going to kind of touch on
another like a on a on a 3d6 system but
we didn't get into the mechanics not
really. So, there are 3D6 systems out
there I would like to explore and I'd
like to have someone on to who's really
expert to walk us through like we've
done with some of the others. There's a
D10 system out there, at least one um
that that I'd like to I'd like to do.
Oh, and then this one's for you, and
this is a loose association, but this
came up on a feed somewhere
recently. We still I I think we still
ought to get someone from games like
Burning Wheel.
No, I'm you know me. I I I'm still that
that Burning Wheel/Torcher.
Yeah. Um still fascinating to me. Um I
know Burning Wheelcon they there was
just some emails I think that came out
about it. Um you know, one of these
years we do need to hit a con. Um, yeah.
Who are we talking about that said
there's one in Madison that Oh, Jim. Um,
um, okay. Uh, no, Jim was talking about
one in Minnesota, but there's one in
Madison that's pretty popular. Oh, I
don't know. Um, I it was not I don't
think it was Jim that mentioned it. It
was someone else that talked about it,
and I'll have to go look it up. But if
we do that, like you and I are not con
people. Well, we're not I don't I don't
We're not We're not going to dress up.
We're just not that type. We're lower
key. We're just lower key people. That's
what we are. But it for multiple reason
You're not going to dress up as Ahura,
are you? Not again. No, but for multiple
reasons. Um,
thanks. Cuz I just watched Star Trek 5 a
couple weeks ago and now I can't get
that out of my head. That's
unfort memory. I did not with the
feathers with the back lighting. I did
not remember that and I thought, "Oh,
oh, Mr. Shatner, no." Um, I thought I
saw it. Did you have to run to the
bathroom after that or anything or No, I
was sufficiently offended by the whole
sequence. Okay. Um but uh um you and I
you and I have kind of played with this
notion very loosely, but maybe maybe
like maybe year five will be the year
where we go to one of the cons and we
record while we're there.
Yeah, that would I think that would be
fun to Yeah. to sit down and talk to
creatives, talk to gamers, writers,
every designers, everything. Yeah. The
only problem is is that we've talked to
a lot of people, but um no one will
remember what we look like. So um and
well, to their benefit, but that's
that'll be the excuse to have Dyson mine
t-shirts made. Yeah. Or hoodies or
shirt. Yeah. Shirts. That'll be fine.
Yep. I mean, whatever. Cards. Business
cards. Those we have. Yep. Oh, yeah. We
did. We did. I've got I've got a box
full in the closet. Yeah. I got them on
my shelf. That's great. Yes, we do have
those. So, yeah. So, I think that's
where I think that th those are the what
I would add to our list. Um I mean,
obviously there's a lot we can do and
will do in year five. And you know,
everybody um lest lest it sounds like we
have some master plan. If you've been
listening to Dice and Mine for any time
at all, you know that Brad's favorite
word is organic because that's how we
roll.
That's that I mean, let's be honest. You
know, I think we've talked about this
before with folks, but I I I don't know
if we've talked about it lately. You
know, um very early on we thought about
would we ever get to a point where we'd
monetize and um Sorry, give me a sec. I
can hear the laughing inside my head.
Yeah, I know. And and that hasn't come
up that hasn't come up since mid-season
one. Um and and we don't Yeah, that's we
that's just on the premise, right? We we
don't have we don't have the
listenership for it. Let's be honest.
one two um you know the kind of the
running humor behind these shows is that
you you are listening if what you're
hearing now without a guest is kind of
the way Jason and I talk all the
different the difference is is that
we've put lap we've just hit record and
I mean you are still reluctant to pay me
for my friendship so I don't see anyone
else yeah and I'm still not going to do
that either. It's you're getting the
deal. I I'm still I mean I'm still
having to pay for an or you know pay an
for um yeah marriage to be around here.
So I can't I can't afford that. We know
I can't afford it.
Um but um so for us and what we get you
know when you think of when you know
the the revenue we get from this is
meeting all of our
guests and there is so much that you
know there's so much that we've gotten
out of this that is that is just non it
you know the the friendships we've made
the help we've gotten with things. Yeah.
Um some of it we can't put we can't put
a monetary value on. No. So um it just
hasn't it hasn't been something we've
talked about in a long time other than
for humor like what Jason says when we
when we bring it up and we want to laugh
about something. Um you know um and it's
not something we're considering. Um, we
do it we do this because we enjoy doing
it. That's right. Um, you know, there
are nights where we're both kind of
tired and, you know, we're both like,
"Oh god, we got to slug down there and
do this." Um, you know, my wife looks
forward to the time when she can get me
out of the family room and get me down
here. So, you know, my daughter is the
one that always asks me, "Are you
recording tonight?" Because she needs to
just work her workouts around here
because she comes down here and uses the
spin bike and stuff. That that's the
inconvenience for her. But um that's
right. From my perspective, you know, to
me, this is a an escape
from, you know, work and and everything
else. And it's a joy to do. And um it's
priceless to me. And that sounds cliche,
but it is. No, 100% agree. You know,
100%. There's no plans for us to stop
doing it. I think the cadence we have
with it being twice every other week
works. when we were doing it every week,
I think we were burning out. Yeah. Yeah,
we were we were definitely burning out.
So, um but you know, going forward, I
think we're we're we'll stay on that
same tangent. Um same tangent, that same
schedule. Same pretty much. We will
continue to go off on tangents on the
same schedule we've been going on.
Um, we will continue to try to to throw
Jim in at least every episode. Jim's
name comes up in every episode. If Jim's
name doesn't come up in every in in an
episode, um, Jason $5. It's pretty much
the Dyson mine drinking game at this
point. That's that is pretty much the
case. Yeah.
Um,
and you know, going forward, we we try
to make our
content useful to folks. We're just two
middle-aged guys with kids who are in or
close to college age. Yep. Yep. You
know, I mean, what is it? We started
this four years ago, so April of 21. Um,
yeah. I mean, April April 21. I know.
And that was after six months of pretty
serious planning. Yeah. And we were
talking about this during I remember we
talked about it. If we want to think if
we do want to recollect I think that was
the funny part is we we we started
discussing doing this during the
pandemic. Mhm. Um, you know, when we
were when we were zooming or or using
Facebook Messenger to chat, um, just so
that we could all socialize when we were
all isolating. Um, and it took a long
time for us to to
to have enough there to decide to do it.
And then even with after 6 months of
planning, how much changed in a very
short amount of time to get us to the
point where we had the format we have
now?
Yeah. Yeah, that's exactly right. So I
think for this very short episode, um
maybe how much time how much have we how
much have we run here? You know, we're
right around half an hour. Oh, that's
it. That's it. But but you know, we're
starting to close, so like in 50 minutes
we'll be done. Oh, that's a good point.
Yeah, but I I do I do have to ask. I
know we weren't going to do a Lon Cafe
this week. Yeah. But um you have
finished reorganizing your office. It's
funny you say. So, the the the complete
renovation is done. Yes. And you know,
as I look over at the gaming shelves,
that's what I wanted to focus on because
we're recording here. Yeah. I'm I'm
going to ask you to look on your shelf.
Yep. I have over there right now. Y and
and not anything Trek related. And I'm
not picking on track. No. What's the
first thing that that that catches your
attention in the RPG section?
I mean, I have to look away from all the
track. I know. That's what I'm saying is
you have to look away from the track.
Well, let me let me start by so so let
me let me start with this um with this
response. So, before the renovation,
um, just because of other things I had
on the built-in bookshelf,
uh, I, as you know, like I had been
thinning out some of the RPG material
that I wasn't using that I had never
used or played, and I was at a real
shortage of space. Yeah. Now, I am
looking You didn't get rid of Midnight,
did you? No. No, no, no. I didn't get
rid of anymore. No. Okay. Um, but now
I'm looking at
just an I mean a major surplus of space.
Like I have the space now to if I wanted
to, I could almost literally double I
could probably I could probably
literally double what I have. I'm I'm
not I'm not going to do that. I know
you're Well, I know that's not who you
are. So, what what jumps out at me?
Um, you know, Worlds of Android is still
just a phenomenal and talk about lit.
Um, but actually there's something we
should be looking at for an episode.
Um, uh, I I still I I'm looking at it
right now. I'm looking at the Genesis
uh, source book. Sorry, the Genesis core
rule book and the expanded players
handbook. And those are just those are
just so so good. We should look out
there. I should look out there and see
who's still really doing some heavy
Genesis gaming. Um well, you know, yeah,
because Edge is putting out like um uh
what is it? Imperium. Um yeah, they they
Twilight Imperium. Thank you. Yeah,
Twilight Imperium, which I still think
is like the coolest board game ever. And
they just they have a couple books now
out for the RPG for for Genesis. Yeah.
Yeah. As a
um as a what do you call
it? Goodness gracious. What a source
books. Yeah, source books. Yeah. No, I'
I've I've seen the the uh the
announcers. What about you? When you
look over at your shelf, you know, um
what stands out? I think um well I I
can't see from this far but
um and that's my eyes but I have I have
my shelf on the left which is really all
um what's over there that's really all
Trek and Gersp in the in the mind's eye
what's trek and gersps but the I we we
switched gears and I forgot to mention
this when we were talking about games
before
and
Um, dice mechanics. Yes. And I would
love to do an
episode. It It's It's a really It would
be a really odd out of the out of left
field or out of right field, whatever
you want to call it, format, but sell
Jason on the D 100 dice mechanic. No,
it's just never going to happen
because you know that's what that's what
um that's the rune quest mechanic. Yeah.
Um, that is kind of the legacy it a
derivative. Warhammer runs a D D D D D D
D D D D D D D D D D D D D D D 100
mechanic, a percentile mechanic. Um,
Cthulhu I think runs that. Um, basic
role playing which is like the like
their genesis, their sandbox, basic role
playing, the BRP system runs off of that
mechanic. Um, and I've pondered about I
looked at that before I settled on
Gersps. Um, but I liked Gersps because I
didn't have to sell you on the D100.
One, and two, Gersps just had a enormous
amount of source material that I didn't
have to
modify to make work in what I what I've
been wanting to do for a long time. So,
that's why I settled in that
environment.
Um, but you know, when I got into using
AI, and I've sent you some of that stuff
before, when I was having it compare,
um, and having Gemini, I was using
Gemini for this, um, Google's Gemini,
um, and having it try to do comparisons
between dice mechanics for certain
situations. It was actually funny for it
to try to explain those to me, but doing
a um an episode um on the D1, ignoring
the fact that it it's just not going to
be your thing, and I understand that,
but having someone come in and talk
about a D100, which I kind of like. Um
it's interesting because remember at one
point, you know, 2D20 was a harder sell.
Um yeah, it was But 2D20 is very
different than a D100 and I get that.
2D20 I think was an easier cell than a
D100 would be.
Um although a D100 is, you know, is a is
a decimal-based type of system, it kind
of plays to mathematics for us. Um true.
But I don't know that just I think I
think that just came to mind when I go
to the mind's eye of systems. Um, I'm
kind of fascinated these days with
um, sandbox systems, Genesis,
um, Gersps, um, basic role playing, um,
you know, Savage Worlds, even Fate. Um,
I'm just interested in
um how they came together and the source
material for them and what people are
developing for them just because um, you
know, I see there are real potential for
creativity for people that may not
necessarily want to live in a sci-fi
world or may not want to live in a high
fantasy world, right? or may want to
before other games come out want to dive
into based off of a recent conversation
we have hard magic.
I I'd like to get into that more too.
So, I think I think that's kind of
um you know, I think that's where I
think I think I think that's kind of I
think more than enough. Yeah, I think
that's kind of where I think we could
wrap it up right now. Yeah, I I do think
we can end though with the the and not
to be cliche but truly the biggest
element which is all of you out there
who have indulged just by listening to
us whether for an episode or two or
especially those of you who have been
with us for the past four plus years. Um
a huge thank you to all of you from both
of us. Um, it's it it um it amazes and
not just you, Brian, who listens to us
in the morning on the treadmill or where
I and I we know you do because then you
message us in the morning afterwards and
make a commentary. We love it. Yes. Yes,
we do. And and so many so many episodes
I think of Eric like yelling at us
trying to get into the conversation.
Oh, which is just great. But but truly
everybody out there, thank you so much
for being with us for some or all of
these past four years. Um, as you can
see, there's a lot to come in year five.
Um, some some of it will be much more of
what we've been doing, and some of it
will be completely novel, and we'll
we'll
organically find it out uh together. So,
you all know the deal. Be well, stay
well. We will see you in a couple weeks.
[Music]
