[Music]
Welcome to Dyson Mind, a podcast hosted
by Brad Brown and Jason Kaufman to
explore the intersection of life, games,
science, science, music, philosophy and
creativity through interviews with
leading creatives. All are welcome in
this space.
[Music]
All right, so welcome back to Dice and
Mind. I'm taking the the opening on this
one. Uh so it's weird. Yeah. What's
going on? Cats and dogs together.
Okay, now that we've gotten that out of
the system, um, so,
uh, we have we have a, well, let me just
back up here,
as all of you know, because of what Brad
and I do professionally, albeit in
really different spheres.
Uh, we talk a lot about leadership and
we we we talk a lot about directly and
indirectly leadership development. And
this is something that like Brad you and
I talk about offline these days
constantly, right? Like we were just
texting literally yesterday about
onboarding and lack thereof at most
organizations, right? Yeah. I mean what
a what a random discussion to have.
Granted, I mean just in the grand scheme
of things, we got on that topic about
onboarding new employees. Yeah. So we
you and I mean we again because of it's
just right. We're It's midlife. We've
both had some modicum. Emphasis on
modicum of success, right? Uh at least
you less modicum me more modicum. But
but but no, that was a compliment to
you. You No, I didn't take it that way.
But I know that's why I was correcting
you. But but I don't know. Is English so
good? I You don't talk too good. So, but
we we talk a lot about leadership and
its development because we think about
it a lot. And something that we've
talked about with some of our guests,
but not very many, uh, and that but
we've talked about with people offline
is the potential for RPGs and even RPGs
as lit to inform leadership development.
And that brings us to our guest for this
episode. Um, Peter, I've known Peter for
about two years, and since I met him,
he's been talking about the potential
for uh RPGs, tabletop RPGs, um,
specifically things like Pathfinder and
that ilk, but lots of them to be used to
just work with people to develop social
skills and emotional skills and whatnot.
And as you'll hear in a moment, he's a
really dynamic individual and he's just
a a lovely guy. But what I only learned
uh in the past, let's see, this is
dropping. What I only learned in the
past about two months is he's really
really interested in using RPGs to
promote leadership development, to train
in leadership. And when he told me that,
my response was, "Okay, so you know how
I have this podcast with my friend? You
need to be on it and talk about this
with us." Mhm. And so so when I I and
then I I I kind of just scheduled Peter
and Brad's like, "So who's this guy?"
And I'm like, "I actually don't know."
No, not really. So So um we're going to
hop over to the interview
uh and just kind you you'll just see how
it evolves. But I think it's an idea,
Brad, that you and I find provocative.
Like you and I after we we finished the
recording with Peter that night, we kept
texting like, hm. Oh, yeah. We had a
really good discussion after that. And
it was because Peter Peter inspired,
you know, Peter, you inspired a great
discussion. So, thank you for that.
Traced it up. Yes.
[Music]
Peter Tanoglia is a human teacher who
wants to use TTRPGs in places of work as
a team building tool. His day job is
teaching teenagers about history, but
his evening job is running an afterchool
D&D club for teenagers and teachers.
[Music]
Peter, thanks for joining us today. I'm
really glad because you the stuff that
you are doing with RPGs and the ideas
and thoughts that you might have in
terms of doing things in the world of
professional development. Yeah.
um for me is fascinating whether you do
it and I mean just you know in the back
of my mind I'm thinking you could do
this in business you could do this in
you know like continuing ed professional
development education you could do it in
continuing ed you know in in so many
different areas. What kind of like,
you know, what made what what did the
light bulb go off for you to think about
going in that kind of direction? Uh, I
mean, I've talked with Jason before
about like uh I really enjoy playing
RPGs. Uh, and I really appreciate that
you call it RPGs and not D&D. I actually
remember before I got on this, I was
like, I really don't want to say D and
D. Even though I will say I run an
afterchool D and D club. And the only
reason I call it D and D club is because
branding. Otherwise, if I say, "Hey, we
have an RPG club." They'll have no idea
what it means. A rocket propelled
grenade club. Um, you can't have that uh
at school. Um, but anyway, so what what
I guess the light bulb that went off
recently was that um, like I said, I run
an afterchool RPG club. I've been doing
it for about four or five years. And
most recently this year, I had I invited
a bunch of teachers to come to um the
afterchool club. And typically I have
about 15 to 20 kids every Friday. And
this year all of the tables were filled
with student studentled GMs. And I was
bored because I wasn't playing and I
wasn't a GM. And so I was like, I'm not
just going to sit here and watch. So I
invited some teachers and we started
playing. the kids had their tables. I'm
in we're in a media center and I started
to notice that these were teachers who I
had I had I was uh I was nice with them
but we didn't directly work with each
other like there's a sped teacher in the
uh in my group there's an English
teacher there is a tech a social worker
um there's the tech guy in there um
there's another uh English teacher uh
there's at least uh another like student
aid so we have a a lot of like diverse
jobs in there and we all worked together
and I just started to notice
anecdotally
we started to get along more when we
were not at the table like I would see
some of them and be like oh hey what's
going on guys like in the hallway and I
would like chitchat more with them and
all these things and I even remember in
college like there were people who I'm
assuming you guys have have you guys
played like RPG G's with like people you
were unfamiliar with quote unquote
before. I have in the in the in the in
the well probably in the ancient past in
the I was going to say it's when I was
when when I was introduced by by another
good friend back in high school. I like
I knew his other group of friends but
but like tangentially. So yeah, sort of.
Did you did you guys like play did you
play with them like regularly or was it
like you played with those like okay no
so I remember in college playing with
someone who I did not like at all and
then after a like five or six sessions I
was like okay this person has some
redeeming qualities I was like okay and
then I noticed with the teachers too I
was like not that I disliked any of them
but like I was like I'm getting along
more with these people
and I um After talking with Jason, after
talking with another colleague who I
really trust at school, I was like, I
want to do this. Like, I want to do
something where we basically just play
games with each other. And with the end
result or goal being we feel more
comfortable, we get along better and and
that's it. Nothing brings people
together like just yelling roll for
initiative
or your dad. Yes. Or or what? or
Yeah. Yeah. Of course, all of those
things are funny, but I mean, like,
think of like all of the like and I I'm
going to be preaching to the choir, I
assume. But like, you have to solve
problems in this. Like, as a GM, I'm a
problem creator. I'm going to put an
obstacle in front of you and solve it. I
don't know how to solve it. I don't know
what the how to solve this problem. You
guys figure it out. And then they got to
work together. And then think of the
other things too of like someone has
like again it was really wild to see
some of these people my colleagues who
again most of these people never played
RPGs before and one person would start
dying and then three other people would
flock to them and oh my gosh we got to
save them what do we do Peter I go I
don't know what do you guys want to do
let's start saving them and they just
naturally started to work together and
do these things and I would also start
like email chains to be like, "Hey guys,
we're playing again uh in like a week or
so and then they would start messaging
each other through the thread being
like, "Oh my gosh, did you guys remember
what happened last time? Oh, that was so
much fun. Oh, you did this." And like
this natural camaraderie kind of just
started happening. And so it was really
nice.
So I'm wanting to recreate that somehow.
Yeah. Now, you there's a reason I'm
asking this, but you and I have talked
about this a bit already, but you I know
Peter, you like like you play and you
like a a real diverse variety of RPGs.
Yes. With the kids at school, and
there's a reason I'm asking this. With
the kids at school, like like you were
working on your mast's project, like I
mean I we've been talking about this for
the better part of a year like from the
Genesis and it wasn't until your your
actual presentation that you're like,
"Well, it's not actually D&D." And I was
like, "What? You've been calling it D
and D literally since day one." But
okay, well, not 100% true. We literally
did have a conversation where I
discussed DN and Pathfinder was
that's true. But that's true. But so
what was it that you've been playing
with the kids and teachers at the
school? All right. So, I'm going to do a
little show and tell. Obviously, I know
the listeners won't be able to see, but
Brad, I want you to be able to see, and
Jason, I want you to see, too. Jason, we
can illustrate. We can We can will use a
narrative descriptive tone as he lift as
he cautiously lifts the book up to the
screen. Oh, actually I No, actually
Peter showed me this. You're you're
going to like this. So So there there's
So um Brad, you've heard of Pathfinder?
Oh, absolutely. Yeah. This is actually
Yeah, there's a story behind it. That
was originally the game that got us
started back into this and Yeah. So Oh,
nice. Um did you guys start with
Pathfinder or 35? Cuz my first system
was 35. No, this was it was it was it
was it was onee. It was one Eefer one E.
But but I had done some I had done some
three. Yeah. Three. Not even 35. I was
in I was 15 when so 2005 when I started
playing 3.5. And then in college we're
just going to ignore that and you keep
going Peter. And my buddies in college
were like hey Peter we're going to
switch to this new system. It's called
Path. I go well what is it? and he goes,
"Well, it's kind of like 3.5, but it's
like 3.75." I go, "Okay, cool. Let's do
it. Rock and roll. I I don't know any
difference." And so anyway, Pathfinder
is my main high fantasy crunchy system.
But as you know, um, teenagers have a
lot going on and they, yeah, this is
interesting. Don't have a lot of
patience. So, this system is called
Shadow Dark.
What it basically does is it takes and
I'll show you real quick so you can be
like like a good a barometer here.
Jason, is this something I'm going to be
Amazoning soon? I think before this
discussion is over. Okay. This is the
character she character uh page for the
thief. And this is it. Yeah. Okay. It's
a spread. That's it. Here's the cool
thing about this system. And the
character sheet is Let's go to the back.
This that's it. I I think this Peter
didn't quite catch this when I suggested
this, but I think from what he's showing
us and from what because you had you
showed me they showed me this um you
talked about this when we before before
um semester was over. Uh Brad, it it to
me it's like if Pathfinder and Fate had
a baby.
Yeah, thank you. Right. It's really it's
really interesting. So the reason I like
it is one, it's got the six ability
scores. Strength XC con. It's got all
those standards. Yeah, we still do that.
Yep, that's just fine. Um, your
abilities, it's like each class gets
like maybe one or two. That's it. Y um
but then after that there's a focus on
what do you want to do. And so like in
Pathfinder, you build feet. And I again
I want to say like I absolutely I I play
Pathfinder second edition. I love it.
Super crunchy. But why I like this
system for teenagers and even it's low
committ taking a building a character is
very quick. Um and the other thing I I
really like about this it's very deadly
but it is high lethality. Like for
example a thief gets 1d4 HP at level one
and you roll it. Oh no sorry 1d6. Wizard
1d4. Oh, and and a goblin. Let me just
again I'll show you a quick stat block
of a goblin. Oh, again, why this is fun
is um let's do an orc. Orc, level one
orc. Um they have four HP, but they can
do a d8 damage.
Grief by an orc. So, it's a it's it's an
emphasis on simple mechanics. Yeah. Like
you can die very easily. And so I hate
the phrase when people say, "Don't get
in combat." No. Get in combat, but take
the enemy by surprise. Yeah. Have the
advantage. Do not just charge in, weaken
them, do all these things. Fight dirty.
Think. Yeah. Yeah. Think. Fight dirty.
Do not just be You're not a hero. You're
just a regular guy who has a cool long
sword, maybe some magic. You got to go
in and you got to be careful.
So, you'll have to excuse Brad. the
glossed overlook is because he's
ordering it right now.
Great. So like, so for example, like
we've already had like so we've been
playing for like with the I've been
playing with my teachers for about um
six months
and um we've had two three two or three
I think two or three character deaths
already and they've only are at Have
they hit level three yet? Some of them
hit level three. Oh wow. Um, but it's
been and it's because they're new.
They don't know any better. They don't
know that in like Pathfinder it's like
well like so you like you try not to die
that I'm I'm not saying you don't want
to die in this game. You don't want to
die but like they've just accepted that
like well Peter said I'm dead I'm dead
and then they roll a new character and
they move on. Um but it's been so anyway
going with why I like this system. It's
quick. It's easy. But for the summer, I
really want to play Pathfinder again cuz
I haven't played in like eight months.
So, I'm like I always get the You play
Do you play two E or one E? Two E. I And
uh if you want me to um uh to to be an
evangelist for um Pathfinder second
edition, Brad, I would love to do that.
We can talk about the uh the the blessed
be that is Pathfinder second edition. We
have to we'll we'll have to you know
we'll have to have you back on to and
talk about this because this would be a
good discussion talking about like
mechanics and things like this. We've
been wanting to talk about this for a
while. And then this is my last one. I
play with my kids. So I told you I have
an eight, six, four, and a hold on and a
one and a halfyear-old. I play with the
eight and sixyear-old. I was I was
trying to remember. I've played Shadow
Dark with them. Um that's been fun. But
sorry honey, daddy has to kill you.
Yeah. Sorry. You do play is this is this
uh is this game?
Have you heard of No. Have you heard of
Into the Odd?
I have not heard of that. Into the Odd.
It's by It's a publisher is Free League.
Um which I assume you guys know that
publisher. Oh, we know Free League. Yes,
we've had some folks on from that. Yes.
The the way this system, it's a
rollunder system. And again, this one is
even I would say even simpler than
Shadow Dark. It only has three ability
scores. strength dext and will. And
what's cool about this one is it's
tactile because you literally have item
cards and everyone has the okay same
number of item slots and so when you
take damage and you get conditions your
conditions take up your item slots and
so you can die by if you get too many
conditions and you have no more item
slots left. So I've played this a little
bit with my kids and it's been fun. Um,
so,
uh, going back, steering this all back
to like, why do I enjoy these things,
again, I've just noticed again when I
play this with my kids, as a dad,
it helps me practice my patience with my
children, it helps like we get connected
more and when we get done, we only play
for like a 30 to 45 minute st, but when
we're done, they're just like, "Dad,
that was so cool that they did this and
I thought that this snake was going to
kill us. I can't believe it didn't kill
us. I was like, "Yeah, wasn't that wild?
You almost died there." I know. I was so
scared. I thought I was going to eat us
all. So, and and then my my own children
seem to work together more, which is
also like a what parent doesn't want
their children to get along and work
together? So, you know, you've seen
this. You've been doing this with your
kids at home, with little ones. you've
been doing this with high schoolers,
with colleagues who are who are
educators and and I know like offline I
know cuz we've had lots of times to talk
about this. You've and I' and I've seen
your data, right? We we you know, you
found that this works for helping like
you're saying to build social skills, to
build communication skills and and and
kind of team building, social awareness,
maybe some leadership skills. But what
really caught my attention was just well
man what like a week and a half ago when
not yeah like like no no no you were the
first so like two weeks ago now to when
you said you're and this is what we we
would love for you to chat about you're
interested in somehow turning this into
more serious professional development
like using this with people to help them
build these same skills. That's very
Yeah. Uh, if you want me to like tell
you like what I've thought about and how
I would want to do this, is that what
you wanted to Well, you can tell us
whatever. Yeah. As much as you're
willing to. Yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah. And
at this point, I'm I'm I'm still This is
still Just put a little TM after it in
the show notes. Yeah. Thank you. Thank
you. Yeah. Um, the Peter method. The
There you go. I like it. Um, I The P and
TK is Peter. Yeah. Sorry. Keep going.
Yeah. Um, so I mean like
how I would want to do this is Jason,
you made a really great comment which I
didn't even think about originally. You
had said when we first met, you said you
can't do this with a school. And my
immediate thought was, "Yeah, of course
I can't do it with a school. They're so
slow to like take any new exciting
ideas." And you're like, "No, it's
because they won't pay you." And I was
like, "Well, that is also true. Uh,
those are not mutually exclusive." Yes.
So, I mean, um, talking to some form of
business, I would, um, I would want to
pitch it as, look, and you literally
talk about this in your classes. We have
plenty of data to show this. If people
aren't happy at their jobs, they are
less effective. Yep. If they don't trust
each other at their jobs with they don't
trust their co-workers, they're less
effective. And like speaking of like
this isn't a secret, but like even at my
job, we take surveys all the time and
like we will self assess and say there's
literally a question that says, "Do you
trust your co-workers?" And we have
literal data that says some of our
colleagues don't trust each other. Yeah.
Don't feel comfortable with each other.
Yeah. And like that sucks. And so how I
would do this is
I would want to meet with if I were if I
could get access to a business and some
CEO or whatever was like yes we want to
do this and like how do you want to
implement this? I would I would want to
find at least five people just to start
a test group of like the people who are
who I would ask the employer like who
are your people who are the most
interested in new ideas. Who are the
people who others think of as leaders
and then who are the people that are
quote unquote fun to be around like who
are who are those people and that's what
I would want to play at the table. Now,
obviously, I'm stacking the deck. I'm
doing that intentionally because I meet
with the people who would after they
have a good time with me, they would
tell the others, "Look at this. This was
fun. Oh my gosh." Then I would start
branching out. Um, it would take a while
as in like I it would be like a probably
a year process or a six-month process
with just that original group and then
another six-month process of more
people. Um, but that's how I'd want to
do it.
is it would have to be a side gig, too.
Probably do this while I'm still
teaching on the weekends or in the
summer. Um, but that's as far as I've
kind of gotten right now. I have a
co-orker who he and I had discussed
business things all the time. He's an
English teacher. He also um likes
programming video games and so we like
talking game mechanics and all that
stuff and he loves this idea and so
we're just trying to figure out how do
we do this. That is cool. Yeah. I you
know there is you know I have seen
in
my because I work in I work in tech um
yeah which is a transient
industry
um so um independent of education which
is more much more stable um I have
worked at multiple companies over my
30-year career
I can't believe it's 30
Um, I don't know if that says anything
about me or the industry. Oh, it says
something about you, but go on. Yeah,
moving on. Um, thanks Doc. Yeah. Um,
yeah. So, that was No, but moving on.
Um, no, but I think you know there there
have been and Jason and I have seriously
talked about this. There have been
attempts in so many different ways to at
trying to find ways to build cohesion in
teams. Mhm. Yeah. Um and you know
there's been the you know the often
tried you know I don't remember you know
outward bound everyone goes on an
adventure type of thing. I've always you
know that's never been anything that I
think has been found fruitful but you
know and then you have people get
together and run through exercises or
things like that but why not try
games? Yeah. And why not instead of
putting even together putting together
people within the same team,
why not put together people from
disperate teams? Yep. bump other groups
together and and then
go ahead and and put people together
um
you know, sorry, I'm just um put
together, you know, then put bring them
back together, you know, and have them
work within the team. I'm just I again
I'm not trying to judge but you know
it's just I'm just thinking about the
idea of
you're you're on to something in terms
of this idea about and then using using
quick hit games to do it. Yeah. Like
that um you know and then allowing
failure
um and and having fun with failure.
There's there is there is this business
um you know I'm not going to get this
right because I didn't I I didn't plan
to talk about this but there's this idea
in business right now of fast failure
and learn from it and keep moving you
know um you know and you can look that
up and this idea of failing fast
learning and moving on from it
especially in the software field um okay
you know so
you know there's something there's
something there. And I'm seeing more and
more in especially in the software world
the idea of of people are doing gaming
now. Yeah. They're doing it as a means
of of relaxation,
you know. Well, and I think, you know,
thanks to I guess this it's not super
recent anymore, but but thanks to shows
like um The Big Bang Theory, um uh a
little more recently, maybe someday if
season 5 or comes out, Stranger Things
um and and and their ilk um you know,
RPGs and specifically tabletop RPGs,
like they they they're in the general
zeitgeist now in this country, in fact,
globally. and they're not dismissed like
they were before. And we you know we
know there's all this stuff is the games
are happening all over but I think you
know Peter like some of the games not it
could be any game but like not the
Pathfinders but the other ones where
there's a lot of churn right where you
could you could I mean there could be
like major turnover major narrative
change whatever still have you know
healthy crunchiness within a few hours
right or within an hour and a half. like
there's a lot there potentially for
professional development, for team
building, for all of that. Yeah. And I
and I'm not like um what's the right
word I want to say? I'm completely aware
that like it's not like RPGs are the
perfect solution to make everyone get
along. I mean, theoretically, you could
probably do this with any board game.
You could do this with like inner
murals, but if anyone's ever like,
"Well, why RPGs?" I have a huge passion
for RPGs. I love these and I'm good at
this. And I think, you know, we're both
shaking our heads because I I I
disagree. Yeah. Board board games, I get
the logic, but I don't think it holds.
Board games not the same. Intram murals
not the same. The beauty of sitting at a
table for an RPG is that there are
rules. Yes. Within which you can and
have to function creatively,
looking and interacting with others,
right? actively solving problems both
independently and interdependently,
right? The there are so many elements
that simulate
real life. Yes. I was honestly trying to
give you guys an out so that way you
didn't alienate all of your sport fans
who listen to your podcast and all that
stuff. Believe it or not, apparently
some of them do like sports, but not me.
No, but sports. Go sports. Yeah, go
sports. No, I I you know, but but no, I
think RPGs are, you know, yes, there are
there are all sorts of different methods
to go about this. I think RPGs are an
untapped
are are are a relatively untapped
resource that can be used and now that
like like Jason, like you said, they've
they've permeated the zeitgeist and it's
I mean common. I mean, I'd be honest
with you, how many, you know, you go out
to whether you you're a Tik Tok watcher
or YouTube shorts or something like
that. I was just watching the other day
and up came a um a video of like A-list
actors who you wouldn't expect who have
this is what I'm saying. Yeah. Who are
who are playing um who are playing D and
D.
There's there's one so there's one other
element too that I think is relevant to
what you're conceptualizing Peter and
and like I don't know Brad if we've ever
I don't know if this has come up for us
in any of our episodes or discussions
with guests but maybe once but it goes
so when we look at the research of how
do you get people to get along because
I'm thinking about like what you were
saying at the at the top of the the chat
Peter what can we do for people, how can
we cultivate community? How can we
cultivate um not even respect, just
tolerance? How can we move past that?
Right? And I mean, you know, in in the
microcosm, like Brad knows us better
than we do. Like this is a work issue.
This is a business issue. We see it
everywhere. Okay, this is a bit of an
extreme example, but I think it holds
and I think it's a good business
rationale. If we look at the research
out there, to my knowledge, the only
studies,
experimental studies that have
demonstrated conclusively that we can
build agreement, we can build
cooperation reliably. Still only like
2/3 to 3/4 of the time. Hardly perfect.
But it's the robber's cave experiments
with with Sheree and Sharief back in the
70s. And all that matters, you've
studied this, Brad. No way you got no no
way you got through your MVA without
that. But but the the the the gist of it
is
that when you have when you have opposed
groups of individuals, the only thing
that brought them together reliably, not
perfectly, but reliably was
them having
to cooperate. Yep. Having to cooperate
in order to achieve a goal that everyone
wanted to achieve. See where I'm going
with this? And and like like you were
saying, sorry, the the what? Shadow not
Shadow Run. Um Shadow Dark is a
different RPG, but yeah, you're right.
But but but Shadow, that's why. But but
like with Shadow Dark, where Jason likes
robots.
Oh, yeah. Thank you. Yeah, I do have a
thing about robots. Um especially robots
that have religion, but that's a whole
other conversation. Um, but but like you
look at something like Shadow Dark where
there's some crunchiness, but more
importantly, it's fast-paced, it's easy
to learn and play, and there's a good
chance you die. Yeah. Right. So, whether
it's using something like that uh with a
workg group or or like like was saying
an assembled, you know, set of employees
or like your little kids, right? Either
way, it's like, "Wow, I didn't think
that was going to happen, and look what
happened, and we did it together,
right?" And and that's like the only
thing that has ever been found to
reliably work. And that has RPG all over
it. Yeah. And another thing to add to
that, like to like emphasize that point,
this is another thing that just kind of
like made me a better GM is when I
started playing with teachers, not just
obviously I played with my high school
buddies all the time. Like we've been
playing for over uh two decades, but I
noticed that with teachers
because of how they write lesson plans,
they're like, "Okay, Peter,
what is our goal?" like they would I
remember at one point we were playing
and they stopped me and was like stop
Peter just tell us what do we got to do
what's the goal here and I was like I
can tell they are not upset with me they
just need to know the gist and I was
like you need to kill the celestial it
is clearly evil and manipulating go kill
it and they're like we got it Peter
we're going to go kill this celestial
cool and that was it then what they
ended up doing is they would literally
talk to each other like we'd be in the
middle of a dungeon, someone would get
hurt and they're like, "Okay, we know
what's in this room, but we should
probably backtrack and go get some
potions." And they were just they would
discuss like what was tactically the
best thing to do, but if we leave, this
person could bleed out. What do we do?
And it was wild again anecdotally, to
see they had this goal. They knew what
they needed to do. They were still
trying to work with each other. Um, and
it just made it very, very simple, like
this is our goal. We got to work
together. We don't want any of us to
die. Just like the PCs don't have to
like each other. They just have to be a
good party. Yeah. And that was another
thing they noticed too. As I I as you
guys know in RPGs, you don't split the
party. You don't do that. You don't
split the party. When the teachers did
it, I was like, "Nope, let it happen,
Peter. The experience is going to be the
best teacher." One person walked into a
dungeon that had a buttload of mukes in
there and I was like, "They're going to
just die and that's okay." And they
immediately got killed. Three spears to
the gut and they died. And then the next
session they were like, "Okay, Peter's
not pulling punches. He clearly hates
us. Um, let's not break up the party
again so we don't die." And I was like,
"Right, cool bean. They figured this
out." So
there's yeah there is there is you know
as as you know I always you know there
there's so much to be learned
to be learned there is so much to be
gleaned that's maybe a better from way
of putting it um glean never mind extra
okay sorry
um from an exercise
um
from an exercise like this just putting
you know think and and when you think
about it putting putting directors
managers and line level personnel into a
group into a party all of them now being
equal I I think this would be level you
know see I was thinking like what about
like the seauite or like what if I I
haven't even introduced that idea what
if you could do this like to to train a
board like this. Like this would be that
terrifies me. This this would be like
the onboarding for a corporate board of
directors. That that is a good idea.
Honestly, I like your idea. I am I am uh
I am personally more beholden to like
the line workers. I would
I would rather them get along first. Y
and then once I build trust with them
because they I I'm a lowly teacher here.
Uh once I get along with them, then I
could be like the game master. You're
the game master. That's right. Um and
then once I get along with the game
master, then I would say, "Okay, you
admin, you, you know, hire up managers.
You need to do this too now. You need to
do this with your with your other
equals." And then eventually, gosh, that
would I don't even know how that would
because you're right, Brad. That is a
good like equalizer. Everyone's on the
same footing. Your job doesn't matter.
you find you there are methods in in the
corporate world when they try to
introduce
new systems, new ideas. Um this was
really predominant in the last decade.
Um I haven't kept up to see if they
still are doing it or not but um where
they would look for champions and they
would look for broad swath. So it didn't
ma didn't matter whether you were an in
the trenches um whether you're an
individual like they what you what you
hear people are called as individual
contributors now or um manager director
level manager level director level or
seauite level um at as or what they
would call an executive sponsor level um
but they would bring those people all
together to become champions of an
initiative whether you were launching
something and using like EOS, the
executive um
think of it as like the like I won't
even get into it, but point being is if
you were launching like some new
methodology that you were going to use
companywide. Yeah. Um they would do
that. And so that's just an option to
think about is is is by by using a broad
swath of individuals because I can tell
you at companies that I've worked at um
there would be a there would be gamers
or people that would be interested in
gaming that could that would stretch all
over that and you would find it
interesting and um ultimately I I here
I'll preach for 30 seconds. You know, we
talked about this, Jason. We tal you
guys were talking about this early on.
Um, I'll speak to it from kind of a
different perspective. I'm a firm
believer that, um, you have to have hope
when you get up to go to work in the
morning. And if your office is in the
basement like mine is and Jason's is
when we work at home, they recently took
Brad's red stapler. Yeah. Um,
um, sorry, keep going. But um it could
be the longest commute of your life just
going That's right. Um if you don't have
that hope, you have to find your fuel.
You have to find your own fuel. And and
you know, Jason knows this. I've written
about this. Um you know, I've latched on
to different methodologies or different
theories around it. Um you know, and you
will never using this type of thing and
introducing a broad swath of people. You
could find managers and directors
finding people in the strangest places.
Um, people who might get caught because
they're not the most verbal. They might
be more achievement driven and they're
not necessarily high affiliation, so
they're not going to be verbal. They're
workers. Um, yeah. you know, and it's a
great way to
to introduce people that to leaders that
they might not necessarily have exposure
to. So, it's it's just another it's
another idea. So, kind of as we as we
head toward a bit of a wrap-up, so what
this like I listen to what both of you
are saying and and it occurs to me like
I'm thinking of like what Peter, what's
going to be your business plan, right?
and and like how specific and or
diversified and it's like okay so from
an organizational standpoint
like you you could do this in terms of
developing structural or like human
resource human level skill sets right
like like um you know just teaching team
building very structural but but you
know very procedural processoriented but
also this could be done to kind of build
leadership capacity amidst like R was
saying a range of people in a range of
positions or or you know like you could
do something like this really with an
depending on what's desired at the
organization with an eye toward culture
like like if you were right if
especially if you were looking at the
organizational leadership
then this could be a way to teach them
to model a different more ad hoc
democratic dynamic culture, right? Or
some combination of those and more,
right? So, I mean, I think there's
there's there's as you you we'll want to
hear back when you're making a ton of
money off of this idea and like how you
how you you know, like what you settled
on, but I can imagine different
different organizations of different
sizes and different purposes really
looking for for for
different pieces of this, right? Like
there's so much you could offer with
this. What's the fit for that
organization, right? What's Yeah, it's
interesting. What services does it
provide? Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Like a
not a scroll. Yeah. Yeah. There's a need
and I and and RPGs are an untapped I
think mechanism to be used for this.
Yeah. I think I think my my uh my final
piece on this would just be um like if
it was like my thumbnail uh for like a
YouTube video, it was Yeah. Do you need
to get along with your co-workers? I
have the answer. It's RPGs.
Yeah. Yeah. Like there it is. And and
even what you said too, Brad, you need
to find hope. Uh like it can be you now
have made a connection
at work. I'm sorry. I'm just thinking in
parenthesis. Some of them might die.
Yeah.
Die. But only in the game. In the game.
Yeah.
It's just a wonderful It's a wonderful
It is a wonderful and creative and fun
idea that like I think a lot of people,
you know, how you get paid for anything
these days, I'm not sure, but but like I
think it really has salience and you're
the kind of person to deliver it so
enthusiastic and beautifully, right? You
have your fusive personality. I think to
be quite honest with you, just take this
for what it's worth. I think that will
be a marketing and selling point and
find a good GM. Yeah. And you have to
and you have to in in my personal
opinion, you have to use that and run
with it. That is going to be a huge
selling point for corporations. You
could have a whole game management,
right, and teach everybody how to be a
GM. Well, honestly, it's it's hard to
say in teaching and GMing which one
helped me be better at which job. It's
it's a chicken, it's an egg situation.
Yeah, like teaching probably helped me
be a better GM. GMing probably helped me
practice these things. But yeah, so you
could It's like, you know, it's like in
Spider-Man, too. You could you could you
could market it as, you know, you know,
I can teach you to have the Peter
tingle.
That was pretty good. I have to give you
that.
Peter, thanks for joining us tonight.
This was actually fun. And and again at
some point we'll have well you'll have
to come back because I would love to
have like a long form discussion talking
about Pathfinder and one and two. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
Because it's it it would be a fun topic
because we haven't talked Pathfinder in
years. Is that the main system that you
guys have you when's the last time you
guys have played?
Oh you played anything? People ask us
that a lot on this podcast. Yeah. It's
been it's played it's been a couple
months. been a few months and we're
we're gearing up to maybe play in the
next month or so. What are you guys
playing? You you said Adventures
Star Trek Adventures. Star Trek
Adventures. We're on a we're right now
we've we're focusing in the sci-fi
realm. I'm writing something that's more
um Yeah, I bought the Gersps cross rule
book. It's just sitting there. Shut up.
Crossverse. Um I bought Midnight because
of you and that's still sitting there.
So that we we do need to play that. Yes.
Yeah. Um, okay. But do you guys play in
person or online? Well, I'm in St. Paul
and Brad's in Milwaukee. Yeah. So,
maybe we'll play when I come out to
visit this summer. But I think
definitely. Um, but yeah. No. But yeah,
we tend to play online because there's
another one of our friends who when he's
able to play, he play he lives he's he
uh is about an hour north of me. Yep.
And then another one in South Carolina
for that game. So So like this is just
the way it is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And of
course that makes total sense. Like oh
man, you guys, like you said, you've
been friends for three decades now,
right? Yeah. So I mean like of course
you guys are conveniently not within an
hour of each other. So 33 years come
August or September. Dang. No. Yeah. No.
92 to 92. Yes. 1992.
Right. That's right. Yeah.
Well, before we go down that slippery
slope. Yeah, Peter, thanks so much for
being with us. Yes, it was a blast.
Thank you, Jason and Brad. I appreciate
it.
[Music]
Peter, that was actually Thank you for
joining us. It it like like we said
before we went to the interview. Um, it
actually like it it brought up
especially when we were talking about
Shadow Dark. Um, I alluded to this in a
prior episode when in when we were in
our LON cafe. Um, I had actually heard
of Shadow Dark when I was investigating
um, and had come across Dungeon Classics
and Shadow Dark came up because those
are kind of like two at the forefront of
the the um, the air quote old school
systems that are that have been
rejuvenated. Yeah. Yeah. Um, and Shadow
Dark has just a phenomenal history and
the fact and how you're using it and how
you described it. Um, kudos. Seriously.
Yeah. Kudos at how you're using it with
kids. I mean, just and what you want to
do with it and it just is very
inspiring.
I've even I' I've even talked about it
with a colleague at work. Yeah. See, so
like everyone and we we really mean
this. Uh, Peter's a bright, dynamic,
lovely individual who's got a great idea
to take this into leadership
development. Stay tuned. Stay on the
lookout for him moving forward with
this. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. But
let's head over to the Lon Cafe. Let's
um I'm going to hijack it for a moment
because as I have been
um talking about with with Shadow Dark
and um with Dungeon Crawl
um you know something popped up on my
shelf. Yeah. Um that's been sitting
there. We've had various discussions
here and there about it. Um
and um I think you know I've been
working on um
you know
Gersps Land and you know that's what I
kind of cenamed my project that I'm
working on. But this one um
literally the the book literally I was
grabbing another book and this book kind
of slid out and I'm like okay we got to
do something with this. Um, midnight.
Oh, yeah. Well done. Well done.
So, um,
Midnight, I think we don't have, we've
talked about this on and off over the
years. We don't have to go too deeply
into it, but, um, I think,
um, since it's already pre-built and
everything all exists, my my thought
process is to get my juices flowing
again as like a as like a game master,
um, I've even pondered the idea of doing
like a mini adventure within that realm.
Oh, that would be awesome for us. Um,
just a just like a mini little oneshot.
Um, and there's all kinds of stuff
available, too. You don't have to write
it. Yeah. No, that's what I'm saying is
is that is that it's been so long since
I've GM anything. I am.
That's what I thought and I thought we
we we've had this sitting here. I have
told you never get don't get rid of that
book. It sat on that shelf. No, it's
it's I know. But but when you had when
you had your I cleaned houseself and you
had you had the shelf that was I don't
know what I'm going to do with it. Don't
you get rid of it. So just as a reminder
for those of you listening who are not
overly familiar with Midnight and I'm
going to not do justice. No one sue me
talking to you as my day. But uh this is
a fantasy flight game/edge studio
game, right? Um and essentially the
premise is and again I'm this is not
party line, but now it's now it's its
own IP. It's its own IP. Thank you. It's
its own IP. Uses the Genesis dice
system. Lots to love, but it's really
dark. But essentially and and and and
Edge is slowly releasing material for
it. So it is alive. But essentially the
concept is go back to Middle Earth with
with Tolken.
What if Sauron had not been defeated?
See, that just makes me want to play
right there. See, that's why I thought I
thought it it it it tackles a It tackles
a fantasy.
Yeah. Does this mean I can sell my grips
core rule book then? No. I'm I'm
kidding. No, no, you can't. Because that
because that think about it. That's like
the ultimate sandbox. I'm It is it
literally that literally plus Well, you
know, we have so much available to us.
Yes. Literally with content and we've
looked at some of it. Some of it was
like hilarious and some of it was
disturbing. So, in a funny way. Yes.
But, but you and I lately have both been
itching for a little bit of fantasy play
when it comes to RPGs. I think we all we
we you know, you have you're working
you're literally we're going to be
talking about this in the future. You're
working on stuff in the STA realm for a
game for us. um as a GM. Um all we're
looking to do is now this it's going to
be tight fitting in because in July
because July is going to be kind of a a
busy month for us and with traveling and
everything. We can make it work, right?
But all we're going to try to do is
we're going to try to even it out a
little bit. And I thought why not have
something that's a you know quick hit.
Yeah. No, that's really smart. And
ultimately, um, it's in a dice system
that we're familiar with. Um, and you
know, we can work through it. We can
putts around with it. It'll just be fun
to do something. I hate not to be not
that we don't love the podcast, but
it'll be something to do that's not the
podcast. We want to play. I mean, the
whole the whole reason of the podcast,
as we've said innumerable times, um,
four years ago was was because we wanted
to play. We wanted to play. Exactly.
Yeah. So, well, in terms of what's on my
desk, I'm just going to say this is
what's on my desk. That's what I
figured. This is I figured anything else
once I said midnight, I figured anything
else that you were pondering was going
to go out the window just in the context
of this discussion. Now, I am purposely
not going to do what I want to do, which
is to look at the currently available
adventures. I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to remain midnight. I'm You
know what you do? No, what I would say
is go look at them because I haven't
chosen anything yet. Go look at them
because then anything you look at I
won't choose,
you know. Okay. If you look at if you
look at and dive into something, you'll
tell me, you know what I mean? And and
it just won't be something that I end up
grabbing. Yeah, fair enough. All right.
So, stay tuned because if this actually
happens, people, Brad and I are going to
report out on it in a later podcast
episode. And as as an inside joke, you
won't have throwing axes. I We'll see.
We'll see. Okay. Okay. All right,
everybody. You know the deal. Uh be
well, stay well. We'll see you in a
couple of weeks.
[Music]
