[Music]
Welcome to Dyson Mind, a podcast hosted
by Brad Brown and Jason Kaufman to
explore the intersection of life, games,
science, science, music, philosophy and
creativity through interviews with
leading creatives. All are welcome in
this
[Music]
space. So this is um part two of our of
us daydreaming in the solar system. In
the solar system. Yeah. And um this is I
I I will I I say this and I say this in
in a very positive way, you know.
Just if you would have told us if if you
would have told either of us a couple
months back that we'd be daydreaming in
the solar system, we would have we would
have wondered what you were talking
about. And this little book would you?
Yeah. Well, you know, I guess not. But
but in the context in this context. Yes.
Um but this little book has taken us
both by storm. And I mean little book I
little book I say that in because it's a
it's a slim beautifully printed volume
in in the in the in the most in the
fondest context. Um just because it's a
it's a powerful little tome. Um it it's
such a good book. It's such a good read,
you know.
So from my perspective
um and I and I say and I say this this
is you know we we we we ri each other
good constantly but there is hardly it's
funny we both live in even though you
teach leadership and your background is
psychology I'm in business and tech but
there is hardly you're you're very
um you don't recommend books to me
unless you think it will. Yeah. Or vice
versa. Yeah. Unless Unless you think it
will because we live in different
arenas, it might show I might have some
interest. You're not going to recommend
to me a behavioralism book because you
know it probably won't necessarily
because of my background um be of
interest to me. Although maybe not the
best example because you know there's
some behavioral stuff that I will find
interesting. Um but yes um when you so
so literally whenever you recommend
point of being is whenever you recommend
a book um from my perspective there
really has never been that I could ever
think of been a case going back to the
Dao of uh physics. Oh my god. Yeah. Back
in the 90s. Well, thank you. Yeah. Wow.
Um or the Dao De Jing or the Eing. Um
yeah, where I haven't just said, "Okay,
I'm gonna read it."
um you know where I haven't done it and
and you you struck gold again with this
one. Well, I again you know we it's such
a good book. So to clarify if you're
just tuning in andor if you didn't
listen to the previous episode we're
talking about daydreaming in the
universe. This is by Moors and Roger.
Now we had Professor John Moors on last
episode, one of the two authors. And
this episode we have Professor Jesse
Roger. And um you know honestly I think
Brad it was just our good fortune, our
dumb luck. John and Jesse and us between
our three time zones we just couldn't
get it to work where they could both
chat with us together. And so instead
everybody gets a twofer, right?
essentially a a two-part a two-part
episode where we talked with John and
and this evening we we share what we
discussed with Jesse and it's on the
same book in the same process but yet
they were very different discussions
weren't they? Yeah, they that and and
again it would have been cool to have
them together but I think I think we
were lucky to have them separate. Yeah,
me too. This was pretty neat because
they both rift about their own interests
and backgrounds and and we had the time
and space for them to do that and I'm I
I appreciate that. They were they were
lovely and so interesting and so fun in
their own rights. Um and uh I I this
isn't on the recording that you'll all
hear in a moment, but stay tuned because
in the next year Dr. Jesse Roger will be
back on Dyson Mind because we haven't
cuz we we we might have our own resident
um never hurts to have an resident
astronomer Dyson mind astronomer
available astrophysicist it's not going
to hurt right for all of your role
playinging needs I never I never thought
that I could I would ever be able to to
you know I I just you know I be able
just be able to say that that I've been
able to have a really cool conversation
with an astrophysicist. You are not
giving yourself credit and I know I'm
giving a little bit away from the
interview. We'll go there in a moment,
but maybe the highlight for me in
retrospect is that No, no, I I say this
with with real props is that you
introduce Jesse to Traveler.
Well, we'll see how this turns out. We
need to do a follow-up with him in a
couple weeks. Oh, yeah. But just the
fact that you you Brad are the one who
told the astrophysicist, "Oh, I think
you'll like Traveler." And he he was
geeking out. Yeah. He Well, we'll see.
Again, you know, he's got two little
ones at home. I don't want to
necessarily He's obviously a responsible
enough gentleman that he won't Yeah. We
don't want his divorce to be on your
hands. No. and we know that that won't
happen, but but he may very well have
looked at it and said, "Okay, I need to
step away from this because I know that
that yeah, nothing good could come from
it." But on the flip side, um I do need
to follow up with him on that just
because again, I think you you said it I
don't know if you said it during the
recording or not, but when you the the
math in some of the the books and
everything like that would allow anyone
to geek out, you know. Yeah. So, I think
we should just go. Yeah, I think we
should.
[Music]
Dr. Jesse Roger is an assistant
professor at York University. He is a
passionate scientist, educator, and
communicator. Whether in the classroom
or on social media, he seeks to create
conversations on how science and society
intersect and why science is relevant in
our daily lives.
[Music]
As is usual, Jesse, thank you for
joining us. We've already conversed for
a couple minutes anyway. 15. Yeah. Yeah.
So, so we've already had a great
conversation that you all probably will
Thank you all for listening to the
episode. We'll see you in two weeks.
You've all missed. Um, but I I have to
ask even before we get into the book
because we've kind of talked about this
a little bit like you you've you're a
scientist, but you're also an educator.
Um, if I can if I can ask a rudimentary
question. um how how did you start on
this path? Yeah. Uh to get into what
what drew you down the path of science
and and studying quazars and and how did
you get there? You know, man, it's um
it's a it's a a pathway of privilege
that I I got to go down this direction.
I I would say that it's a mix of two
things that I ended up in the career
that I'm in. Um, I'm really I've always
been a very social person. So, like I've
always been um I wanted to work in
groups. I wanted to work in teams. I
wanted to have fun. I wanted to chat
with people. I like talking. I like
presenting. I like playing um with
things. And then I was also just also
super interested in things like not
everything like not all of my schooling
was I interested in. But when I got into
university and I really started learning
about space, I I took I took astronomy
by the way. I was in computer science.
Computer science was my undergrad in
first year. Yeah. And because I I
thought it was really fun to tinker with
code and it and it was it was just
wonderful to play around with code. Uh
but then when I got into university, I
was like kind of disenchanted with it
and and I I took astronomy as a as a an
elective because I was like, "Oh, who
doesn't like space? Mars is cool. I I
remember looking at constellations as a
kid and stuff." And and I just I I sort
of had this love of physics from high
school. And then when I got into
actually learning about space in in
first year astronomy, I I I just
couldn't stop. I was like, "This is
interesting. I need more. I need more."
And so then I switched from computer
science into physics proper. And I took
the astrophysics stream. And I just kept
going. And every year it got cooler and
more interesting and more and more
difficult, way more difficult. Um, and
so I had to like relearn how to do math
to like to make sure I I could do this.
Wow. And then by the end of my fourth
year, I finished a four-year physics
degree and I the the simple answer is I
was just not done. I wasn't done with
it. I didn't feel like I had actually I
I had read textbooks and I had I could
answer questions on a test enough to get
a degree, but I wasn't like I wasn't the
one doing the learning. I was the one
who was reading about other people's
learning. Yeah. Uh, so I I was like, I
need to do grad school because I need to
do some of this discovering whatever
that is, right? Um, and so I went to
grad school and that just like
catapulted it because in grad school
you're there they're they're my
supervisor Pat Hall for both my masters
and my PhD he's just like okay what do
you want to work on? How do you want to
do this? how do we and he he starts your
supervisor starts guiding you on how to
ask questions in science and that's like
that's where it opens where you start
asking your own questions and and you
know you sort of fall in love with the
scientific process and that's sort of
how I got here I I just I wanted to
learn more and so I didn't stop and I
got to the end of my PhD and I I had
learned some things and you know
discovered some very small little
pebbles on the pile of knowledge that
we've all created Um, and but at that
point I was more interested in the in
the conversations with people about
science and what I've learned. I wanted
to talk to people about space as much as
I wanted to learn about space. Yeah. And
uh so then my career went that direction
more into education, specifically public
education. I I ended up as I've worked
in museums and science centers across
Canada um developing programming,
developing planetarium shows, uh doing
um advising on science in in various
museums uh as an astronomer. And so I
there I got sort of to mix my interest
in in the sciences with the the
socializing with people and sort of
creating that intersection. Um so like
to be for me becoming a scientist was
really like I just wasn't done with the
topic and I and I really feel like it
was you know it's one of those things of
privilege that I had. I had a a strong
support system that I could keep going
down a PhD path which is not a lucrative
pathway um and sorry at the you know at
the time um and I've now um been able to
I've ended up in a a wonderful position
as a professor at York University in
Toronto and my job there is is is a
teaching stream I'm a teaching stream
professor so I don't do active research
I do a tiny yeah small amount so York's
differentiated pathways. Mhm. How's it
going? How's it going? I think that it's
fantastic because at a university espec
especially a massive university York has
50,000 undergrads. It is a really really
big university and there it's it's not
just about having the best researchers
on the planet but it's about creating
the best curricula on the planet. Right?
That's what you want to be with a
university that big. And we have York
has some incredible researchers across
across the campus. I can tell you like
in in the astronomy department um some
of the top in Canada for sure. Uh but
York is also known for it's got a strong
engineering program. Um but it's got a
massive like humanities, liberal arts
and professional studies. It's got a
great business school, really great
researchers. Um creating some uh
fantastic knowledge. And so you have all
these students there and to take I I
think h having people like me there
where I'm in I'm in the teaching stream
and my job is to not just teach but to
be good at teaching. I I need to be e an
excellent educator. Yeah. Uh so I'm I'm
looking at what are the best pedagogical
ways to deliver knowledge to an
undergraduate student. um and I can make
that my priority whereas the the
researchers can make the research their
priority as well as the they can sort of
they do both. Um it's a I think it's a
fantastic mix. I think all universities
should have full-time educators as well
as full-time researchers. I think they
complement each other really nicely.
That's really that's a really cool
perspective. That's really nice to hear.
I'm glad. Yeah. I you know they the
researchers um outnumber us. uh there
and you know the point of a university
is to do is to create knowledge to to
research and do cool science or or write
great manuscripts um as well as to teach
the next generation. Uh but you know
it's it's a place of learning. It's a
place of higher level higher level
higher level learning and you want to
have some at least some of your group
focusing on that. And man, in my
department, my entire department is so
I'm I'm not I'm not actually in
astronomy. I'm in a group called the
natural science department, and we're
all full-time
uh teaching stream professors. Yeah. And
you just it's incredible what these
people know how to do. um like the way
they like uh one of the professors she
teaches um she's like a biology plant a
botany professor and she just started
this like field course for these
undergrads where they go out and they um
are looking at like native plants in the
area um something that you wouldn't get
normally
um you there's uh like I'm I'm getting
students using like as much real data as
they can so I'm like trying to get as
astronomical data into my classroom
Yeah. And getting that getting students
to
to what I'm what I'm really trying to do
is trying to get students to think about
what they see in media. So when you see
astronomical stories and you see titles
like hey earthlike planet discovered you
know what are the scientists actually
meaning what do the what do the media
what does the media actually mean when
they say earthlike planet? Um so you
know we get to focus on that kind of
stuff. And if you go to like a physics
classroom, they'd be focusing on like
different types of things like the
equations and like the hard science
behind um the theory they're they're
learning at the time. So yeah, it's a
good mix. I really like it. So it it
makes sense to me why you might be
motivated to write your book Yes. with
your colleague and partner in crime
here. Yes. Cuz it definitely Right. Uh
uh Daydreaming in the Solar System. um
just this wonderful book and you
obviously so as this episode drops two
weeks ago we talked with John we talked
a lot about the book we're obviously
want to talk more about it through your
perspective with you but it is like like
like you were saying Brad before we
clicked record it's a very and I mean
this in a really good fun way it's a
very educational book right like it's
nice and thin I mean again I'll I'll
reiterate one of the things I like about
MIT Press books is they tend to be
concise you know you don't you don't
have these to that come out. They're
they're these tight manuscripts where
you're going to kind of go front to back
and you're going to pick something up
interesting along the way. And I I
thought yours really moved chapter to
chapter. Um it's amazing. Well, but I
mean I I'm sure that was the goal. And
like we were saying before before we
clicked record, um it was impressive.
Wonder if you could because again we we
didn't catch this on tape. It's it's
very it's very approachable whether you
have a science
background, whether your background is
in business, music, whatever the case
is. Yeah. Um and you have an interest
in, you know, astronomy, space, whatever
it's approachable. It's it's something
that you can read and you will get
something out of it in my opinion as
someone who doesn't have that
background. So like there's a few pieces
here to that. Um, so both John and I are
just just straight up were interested in
talking to the to the public about
space. Yeah. Um, before when John and I
met um, way back at the beginning of my
of my grad school, I might have been a
master student at the time. Um, he he
and I were like randomly we would do
public talks in various scenar like at
the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada
or something like that. Um, so we've
always had this interest in it and we've
like been growing it. um uh for a very
long time. Um I got into a career where
my entire job like in the museum world
my entire job was to figure out how to
take complex things and teach them to
non-science people. So when you walk
into a museum and you read those panels
on the wall about something scientific,
the the it lands with you, right? I
wanted to create those conversations
with the non-science people. Um, and
then now my job at York is I I teach
astronomy and space sciences, but I
teach them to non-science majors.
Anybody everybody in my courses Yeah.
are non-science, I suspected. Yeah.
Yeah. Um, so let me and let me tell you
how this book the I don't know if John
uh No, go for it. Remember, but how we
got to this book. I was literally
working at the museum. This is my old
job. I was it was the Canada Aviation
and Space Museum and I was writing a
blog. So, I think that the it was a blog
post for my museum's website. Yeah. And
so, I think that the to your point about
how like it moves from chapter to
chapter, it was I think it started in
like a blog idea because we we had um I
had this I was like there's a there's a
moon um called Europa. You probably know
this moon Europa, right? And or sorry um
no actually Europa is the one that ended
up in the book. Um there's a moon called
Encel Enceladus. Yeah. I I'm glad you're
saying this because I will say I was a
little surprised Enceladus wasn't there.
Yes. And I thought Europa was awesome
and it covered it. Okay, let me tell
you. I think I know why Europ Enceladus
wasn't there. Okay, so Enceladus for the
listener is this moon of Saturn. It is
an ice moon. It's entirely covered in
ice. Water ice H2O. Um
probably 10 to 100 km thick of ice. We
don't really know. And then below that
there's a global ocean, liquid water,
H2O, encompassing the whole moon. goes
around Saturn and due to gravitational
effects and tidal forces and such um it
maintains this liquid mantle you could
call it and uh when a spacecraft arrived
there Cassini um it discovered that it
has these massive jets that shoot huge
plumes of H2O through cracks in the ice
um cryovcanically shooting it out into
space and it creates a ring around it
creates the E-ring around Saturn um
incredible uh discovery made by the
people of that mission. And when I was
sitting in my office one day and I was
like, "Okay, so it's got the I was
looking at pictures. I was like, it's
got these huge jets. It's shooting water
out at who knows how how much pressure
it's shooting that out of." And I was
like, "I wonder if like if I was
standing on this moon and I like jumped
into the jet." Yeah. Could it like lift
me up? And that was like that was where
this started. And so I started like
reading papers and like trying to figure
out what's the pressure, how do we know
um what do we know from the spacecraft?
And I did my best as much as I could and
then I emailed John and I was like,
"John, this is the question I'm trying
to answer. I think it would be a funny
blog post." And so we went back and
forth in the in the emails a bit and he
helped me figure out that no, the
pressure is not strong enough. Y you you
if you jumped into it, you just fall
into the crevice. Um but then we also
said disappointed. Okay. I know it was
disappointing, but John Bummer, but but
John made it. This is And John's
fingerprints are all over this book,
obviously, as a co-author where he's
like, "Don't worry, it's still fun
because if you made a parachute that was
the size, how did it how big was it?"
Uh, a parachute the size of like two
hockey rinks or something like that,
then it would catch enough of the of the
jet and you would go flying up into
space, right? And so that was the way I
ended the blog post and that got posted
on the museum website. And then um when
we went to write the book. Yeah. Um we
sort of when drew inspiration, we were
like that was a really fun blog post to
do together. We should do more of those.
And so we started putting a book
together and we left out Enceladus
because it was on the museum. That okay.
Yeah, that makes that makes a lot of
sense. I I I will say and then I'll I'll
turn over to you, Brad, but I will say I
said the same thing to John, but I was
so happy to see among others Pluto
there. Uh I mean I have I have a print I
have um I printed at the office at the
university the rearward look rearward
looking scan or image of Pluto what is
it right the mountains the um the ice
mountains right at the edge of um what's
the heart the something plenicia
plenicia whatever you know footnicia
yeah um cuz it's like that's amazing
like I never thought in our lifetimes we
could see the surface of of Pluto and
that it would be more than a snowball.
So like to see that stuff was Yeah. And
to so to see some of that in the book um
it was fun especially, you know, our
perspective of of the podcast being so
oriented on like play and games and live
all through this and trying to bring in
science. It's it it's it's it was it's
fun with those kind of images that are
real and then it's fun with books like
yours because it gives one more fodder
for the imagination, right? A highly
informed imagination. Yeah, that was
Pluto. I think we we've regardless of
whether you think it's a planet or not,
um it's it's an interesting place and
it's so new in our in in like our
understanding. Like 1930 is when it was
discovered. Um, that's not that long ago
really. And and it I I always point to
Pluto as a wonderful story of science
because it you can trace back through
the last 400, 500 years of like our
evolving understanding of what the word
planet actually means. And then to
finally in to have the spacecraft fly by
this this place that has been the center
of such interesting conversations and it
to be revealed as one of the most
complex places in the solar system I
think was just like the cherry on top to
the whole conversation. Um because you
could go to places like Siri which is
part of the Pluto debate as well. um the
dwarf planet in between Mars and Jupiter
and you could go to series or you could
go to Vesta which is sort of almost part
of that conversation and they're they're
interesting places but Pluto just like I
think shock and awe everybody. Uh you
have this incredibly complex active
place in in a local in the system solar
system that you would not expect that to
be happening. Um I don't pretend to know
a ton about Pluto, but it was it's been
a great few years going through all the
work that has come from um New Horizons.
Yeah.
What was the you know, you know, we we
asked we asked John this and I'm curious
as to what your experience was like and
this kind of a kind of a a goofy
analogy, but I'll I'll use it. um the
the sausage making, the the experience
of doing the writing and and
and putting the book together and
working with MIT Press and and all of
that. Um what was that like for you
doing that?
Well, that I don't think anybody's ever
anybody's asked me that about this book.
Um it was way more work than I was
expecting. Um MIT Press was fantastic.
They are a great group of people to work
with. They are um they're they're pros.
They set us up with what we needed. Um
they would we had, you know, they had
deadlines. They helped us um hit those
deadlines. I don't know. I got nothing
bad to say about MIT Press, that's for
sure. Um we I'm I would love to publish
with them again. Um the the actual
nitty-gritty nuts and bolts of like
putting a book together
was it was so it was it was constant I
guess the way I would think is you were
constantly um stepping back and then
focusing in and then stepping back and
then focusing in is what it felt like I
guess. So John and I would have like
weekly meetings and it sometimes it felt
like we did absolutely nothing in those
meetings but we did everything. we would
be like
discussing like story arc of the whole
book um and like chapter order and like
wait what about this detail and if we
talk about this bit of science how do we
like leap frog it into the next like
there's there's bits of science that
sort of follow the way through um trying
to like thread those lines thread thread
that needle through all the chapters
sometimes but then so you'd be doing we
do this weekly and then we go away to
our separate pieces
and and crunch and then I would be so in
such in utter details uh where I'd be
trying to figure out like
um something about uh what was one that
was when I was talking about I remember
the Venujian atmosphere I was trying to
yeah because it's so it's such a
complicated place trying to figure out
what it would actually be like to be on
the Venuian surface or in the Venujian
atmosphere higher up and like so like At
that point, I'm like I'm thinking about
individual air or atmospheric molecules
bouncing off of the person. So, I'm
like, how fast are they moving? Um, what
would that do to the person's skin if
there was skin or and if you're higher
up, okay, the pressure is okay, but now
you're in sulfuric acid clouds sometimes
and like what would that do? and like
you're it was like it was so much detail
on those times and then so broad on
other times and it was like this
whiplash back and forth from from it. Um
and then you'd have to read all these
papers and do all this work to try and
get like 500 to to 2,000 words or
something right. Um, it was way more
than I was expecting, but in a great way
because you you end
up it I guess it's like it puts a
magnifying glass on all the things that
you don't know. That's what it did,
right? You're I was writing this book
about the planets and I'd be like, "Oh,
yeah. I know all about Venus's CO2
atmosphere and I it's you know it's 90
times thicker than Earth's and and uh
you know there's sulfuric acid clouds.
Great. I teach this in my classes all
the time. And then when I'd actually
start sit down to write it, I'd be like
I need to read 10 papers. Give me a
second. And then I'd bring these papers
to John and be like John does this make
sense to you like and he would teach me
some stuff and like we would sort
through it. Um it was a wonderful mess
of learning I would call it. So, that's
so cool. Have you had any students have
you had any students come up to you with
regarding the book or anything or
actually, you know, it's funny that you
say that. Um, the the book came out in
October. Um, but literally like the week
before it came out, I went on paternity
leave. So, my wife and I just had a baby
in October. Congratulations. Thank you
so much. Um, she she was born about
uh six days after the book came out. Oh,
that's cool. Wow. It's kind of cool,
right? Um, so book comes out. I'm on pat
leave. I haven't I have not talked to
anybody at in any of my class. I don't
have any classes right now, so I don't I
haven't had students um come to talk to
me about it, but I have so much in my
brain that I want to do with the book in
class. Yeah. I I perhaps this is self-
serving, but um I think that the book
has has a perfect way to get to those
conversations with non-science people.
Um so I'm hoping I'm hoping to talk to
students in class about it and maybe
even bring it into the programming in
class at some point. I I I mean I think
that would be incredible. I know when I
was when I was a
freshman, it it could have been
sophomore year. I think I I don't it was
one of the two and I was in this it's a
long story but the short version is I
was in this like broad there's no short
version. I'm really trying broad science
survey course. It was it was it was my
my dad had really pushed like my dad
never pushed any of this stuff like
never would push for for like you should
do X Y or Z but when we when my brother
and I went to college he was like look
at education as a backup and I was like
I don't want to do that but fine. So for
the first for like sophomore year I took
a bunch of ed courses. Okay. And one of
them was like basically science for the
educator which like I was already
science boned but it's like okay I'll
take this. it knocks out a bunch of
requirements of generals, whatever. I
didn't learn a great deal in the course.
However, the assigned book, one of the
assigned books has had a lifelong
influence and it was the it was either
the first or second edition of uh Robert
Hayen's uh science
matters and it was just this incredible
over it's dated now. I know he I know
they he he updated it maybe I don't know
how many years ago but um
it it just blew my mind like it opened
my eyes. It was it was written clearly
as like an intro pans science book and
it covered I mean it had its limitations
right it it it it made it in as far as
the biological sciences and then put it
out but it was this phenomenally
insightful
engaging read where like every chapter
was topical and it moved you through the
physical and then the biological
sciences and and it was like the best
current knowledge and it was with this
right? There of of science in everything
and I was like and I could not put it
down. And so I think you guys have
written something similar but obviously
more focused and way more clever and
creative and with the you know I mean
and with the vignettes like I think and
like to Brad's point I think if you can
use that in a class you know you you
should well I think so what I think that
the heart so like if you look at the way
the book is structured right each
there's 15 chapters each chapter focuses
on one place in the solar system and
there's a story first you read a story
and then you learn about why the why the
story played out the way that it did
scientifically. Um, so it's like a mix
of science and science fiction. Um, but
I I think the word story is the key
there. Um, because I think it depends on
the type of learning you're trying to
do.
Sometimes sometimes like if you're
getting into something super I'm trying
to think of like me learning quantum
mechanics in like fourth year you know
at there's there's lectures where all we
did was just look at an equation and
play with an equation but overall you
need a story. Um you need to know why
that what that what the equation fits
into. You need to know why. Um, you need
to
attach importance to things. You need to
attach um characters to things. Even if
the characters are non-p people things
like equations, you need to attach all
of this to a thread. Uh and so in my
time working in
like working in public education and
museums, working in the classroom or
working on social media or anywhere and
whenever you're it's like the number one
thing you're trying to do is tell a
story. That's the first thing that you
should start with. Um and then you fit
the science in and you fit the thing
that you're trying to teach into the
story arc. Uh so the the goal for us was
to tell stories and I and it in writing
the book that has sort of morphed how I
want to do my education in class because
now it's not like I don't want to just
get up and teach a lecture about stars
anymore. I want to be like let's let's
tell the story of stars, you know, it's
not the same it's not the same idea or
it is it's the same learning that
happens but you it's well it's it goes
back to Sean and Dian's cosmos right
back to the the early 80s I mean you
tell this story right
it's it's all storytelling that's all
that is the only way we learn no one not
a single very few people I should say
sit down and just memorize facts Right?
That's just that's just not what we do.
Humans are built around stories. It's
how we connect with each other. It's how
we connect with ourselves. It's it's
what stories you tell the world and what
stories you tell yourself that's informs
who you are and what you learn. Uh so we
we really wanted to lean into that,
right? And we started telling stories.
John John took the the brunt of the
storytelling. Um and he is so good at
it. Uh he has such a a strong knowledge
of science fiction. He's read so much
science fiction and he has such a strong
knowledge around the science and we we
crafted these little vignettes. They're
not even really full stories if you
really read them, right? You like
there's not like a a huge plot going on
here. It's just
attaching some some sort of grounding to
going to a place. And we really wanted
someone to be able to feel like it was
them there. Uh, and the only way to do
that is with storytelling. One of the
things I liked about those vignettes was
how you were able to keep each of them
in the second person really agnostic to
the reader, right? Cuz I mean that had
to have been difficult because like Brad
could have been reading, I could have
been reading. Someone who knows nothing
about any of this but just was like,
"Ooh, space, right? Could have been
reading." And yet and and yet those
those vignettes they at least I thought
they tended to assume very little almost
anybody could put themselves in those
shoes or boots as the case may be and
hope and ide like see themselves in it.
You were like you I thought you two were
seemingly very careful about not
limiting that. Yeah. Did that how did
that maybe this is putting you guys on
the spot but how did that land with you
reading it like I guess this written in
the second person that is rare right you
you read books I don't know if I've ever
read a book like that before um like
I've I've seen maybe examples of it um
did that land okay with you do you feel
like that was a um as you were reading
it that it didn't feel too awkward no it
didn't feel awkward at all to me oh
that's good good to hear you know and
and both He and I I read a little bit
more fiction than he does. Um but for
the most part we read a lot of you know
both of us most of our reading is is
non-fiction and and but so um reading
something like that it it to be honest
with you the way you wrote it it it put
for whatever reason Jason tell me if I'm
wrong it it it made it easy easy for us
to to fall into those shoes. Oh, good.
Exactly what we're going for. And and I
think I think my 18-year-old daughter
could have read could read it and she
could fall into those shoes. I think
it's very agnostic that way. And I think
we we even mentioned this with when we
were talking with John. I think you
could even have someone in middle school
read this and it could spur interest
with them. Um, if they wanted to dive
and do, you know, and it could be one of
those things that, and again, I mean,
obviously, it could be one of those
things that could be like an inflection
point down the road for them where they
read this and they're like, "Oh, maybe
this is, you know, an area that I want
to investigate further down the road."
Yeah. Well, you know, so I I have
hundreds of students every year and and
my my view of my classroom when I look
out to a lecture hall of 250 students is
not a single one of them is alike to the
other, right? Like you they're all
everybody is so interesting and unique
and different. And when we we we were I
remember John and I talking about this
at one of our like big meetings where
we're like, "Okay, how are we going to
do this?" And we were we knew we wanted
to write stories and we knew we wanted
to have like quote unquote like
astronauts being the characters there.
And then I was like I remember us
talking and being like okay well like we
can't just have them be all men and they
can't just be all white and like but
then but that it led us down a road
where we were very uncomfortable because
we we were you know how do I how do I a
white
male you know cisgendered like like I'm
how do I write a character that is
female or how do I write a character
that is um bisexual or how do I write a
character that is any other thing that
isn't me, right? Um, so and that would
be it would be disingenuous, right? And
I would be scared of like
uh doing harm and and I didn't want to
do harm and neither did John. And so we
we were like, how do we how do we pick a
gamut of characters? We have 15 chapters
we're going to write. How do we pick a
gamut of characters that that well
represents
everybody? and and we we I think when
you read it, you say, you know, we did a
really good job of of making sure that
it didn't rely on anyone. And I think
that is because we felt way more
comfortable um having no details um
because it the we really wanted and we
actually we have a whole like manifesto
in the back. I don't know. Did you guys
see the manifesto in the back of why we
wrote it the way we did? is there's
there's so much there are so many
roadblocks to so many communities to get
into science or or not just to get into
science but just to get into science
fiction to go to comic cons to be part
of gaming communities to be part of
anything. There's so many roadblocks and
we wanted to we wanted someone to be
able to pick up our book and not feel
like it was a roadblock or not feel like
they were on the outside of it. Um that
they were part of it and they could just
read it and they'd be like, "Yep, I get
it. That's me. That's me there. That's
me walking around on Mars. That's me
flying through the atmosphere of Titan.
That's me on a comet for a year." Um
there's we did our best. And don't don't
get me wrong. Um, there's still biases
there because we are two white men that
wrote this. Um, but I think we we really
were trying to not
be so like pigeon holing, you know. So
that's that's why second the second
person came about and we tried we really
tried to keep it as as open as possible.
Yeah. Very cool. Well, I I would I would
I would hope that just by the nature
that you made that attempt that puts you
ahead of of Oh, yeah. a lot a lot of
other a lot of other folks. Let's be
honest. You know, whenever you create
something, as you guys know, you're
taking chances, right? And
and you know, we we took we think that
this was the right way to go. And
hopefully, you know, as we haven't, you
know, we've I feel like I'm inviting it.
We haven't gotten bad uh feedback on
that second person thing yet, but um
hopefully we don't. I don't think you're
going to. I really don't. I I don't I
don't think you know it's society
especially I think western society right
now is so invested in defining people
and the second person perspective the
way you wrote it invites people to
define themselves and then see
themselves in those situations and we
could all be doing a better job with
that. That was that's a I've never
thought about it like that. That was
such a great way of saying that. invites
people to define themselves, which is
sort of like the lifelong goal, right,
of anybody, right? How do you define
yourself? You know, go go define
yourself and feel and be and make sure
it's okay for you to redefine yourself.
Right. Right. Now, the natural segue
would now be to get into a 35minute
conversation on Star Trek. But instead,
well, I want to I want to ask cuz I we
want Yeah. We want to be cognizant cuz
you're an hour ahead and we want to be
cognizant.
I was going to say, yeah, you got a
little one, but we do want want to ask
like what instead of Star Trek, what
what do you do, Jesse? I I'm not going
to I'm not going to to ask in your free
time cuz then we'd all just start
laughing. But what do you do when you
can just to geek out? Well, I was going
to ask even before that cuz you have a
little one at home. Are you actually
getting sleep now? Well, you know what?
We have two little ones. Um we have we
have a three-year-old and then we have a
three-month-old. So then no and so the
the sleep is non-existent. No. Okay.
Um but you know my science so Star Trek
um the next generation and Voyager were
my two favorites. Um I I I haven't I
wouldn't say that I'm a a massive fan of
them like I don't I don't rewatch them
over and over and over again but they
were really really good shows. Um the
gosh, what do I do? Um
uh I I think I can't even remember what
free time was like. Um
yeah, we get it. We understand. I I
think I think what I like to do is I
don't think I have like a singular
passion. Yeah. Um, I just uh actually
just the other day, speaking of having
recent free time, I just um played this
one um with my my buddy Tactics. Epic
Epic Tactics. It's a little small um
it's a little game, role playing game,
and you just uh it's a a strategy game,
and you're just fighting each other. You
have certain moods, you roll dice and
stuff. Um Oh, interesting. So, like I
think
what I like to do is I like I think I
like to bounce around. So, if you like
what kind of like I'll go to a Comic-Con
once in a while, but not every year. Um
I but but I'll play like um a board game
like that once in a while. Um I like I
like social games. I like games where
you're like you don't have to think too
hard. Um most of the time and then when
I But then this one this one is one
where you have to like really sit and
it's like, okay, what moves do I want to
do 10 moves from now? M um you know
I I don't think I have like a I think I
like to experience a lot of different
things and so I play around with a a lot
of different games and a lot of
different um science fiction and a lot
of lot of different media. Yeah. When I
had free time. Yeah. But it hasn't been
in a while. It we can both speak from
experience. It will return. Not
necessarily this decade but it will
return.
One day I will be able to nerd out
again. Yes. And what what is on I don't
even know what's on I have like a pile
of books and stuff that I want to read
and games that I want to play. I have
Boss Monster. Have you ever played that
game? I've heard of it. Yes. Yeah. It's
a like a a quick
uh uh deck building game, I think, is
what it is. Yeah. It has kind of like a
Mario type of vibe. Yes. That's a fun
one. I played it a few times. Um, Jason,
you know what I'm gonna recommend if you
wanna if you wanna like a this is one
where you take a look take a look at it,
put it on your back burner for down the
road. Um, if you've never looked at it
before, have you ever heard of Traveler?
No, never heard. Oh, okay. Hold on. Hold
on. So, we haven't played yet, but
Traveler is Okay, speaking of Quaurus, I
have to come back to that. Okay. Tra.
Okay. So, Traveler is a black hole of
details and and adventure and like like
in some of the books like the math even
starts to go high level. So, like you
have it's really cool. Brad's got me
into this. But just be careful, Jesse,
because you'll get sucked in and then
it'll be like, "Where did dad go?" Yeah.
The Traveler role playing game. Traveler
from Yeah. Yeah. in from 1977.
Well, very yeah updated now. Mongoose
Publishing is based out of the UK and um
they've come out with a new version over
the past, you know, 101 15 years. Um and
it's it's phenomenal. Um the original
version that came out in 77, they've
just acquired the rights to it. Um so
they're going to be the caretakers of it
now. Oh, nice. Um, and it's it is um,
you know, it's a really cool company,
too, Mongoose. Like you it it'll be
worth looking at their background. I
think it'll probably resonate based on
some of the things you said. Okay. All
right. Great. I will I will take that
because I I you know, it's one of those
things like I love games. Games are you
know I love I think I love them mostly
for the socialness of it where you get
to like get together with your friends
and play, right? Yeah. Um, but there,
you know, stepping into those worlds,
like
it's so much fun stepping into another
world, right? You guys, you I'm sure you
guys know this. Um, whether like Lord of
the Rings is probably my favorite books
of all time. Um, they're so good, those
books. And,
uh, you know, Kim Stanley Robinson wrote
the Mars trilogy, which I think John and
I show this for What is this? This is
the So Brad is showing a map from
Traveler. This is the traveler. This is
the traveler map of the universe. And
and this shows the galaxy of which our
our galaxy. Now it's going to take
forever to load. And that's how much of
the galaxy has been mapped. Just
traveler. Be careful before your kids go
to school. Yeah. So that gives you an
idea of That's gorgeous. That's the
Milky Way. It is the Milky Way. So it
takes place in the Milky Way. Yeah. But
it's designed where you can actually you
can actually take it anywhere. So I'm
going to leave it there. You can Oh
gosh. Yeah. That's even an upto-date
image. It's got the the barred tight
spiral. Yeah. Yeah. That's and that's
charted space. That's all of where all
of the material exists right now. See,
this opens up such interesting questions
about like the the whole like the whole
idea. You've heard it here first, man.
We've start This is day one of his
addiction right here. Don't play this
until after tenure. Yeah. You and and
and I would recommend you've probably,
you know, this is good probably if you
have to if you have to rock your little
one, you could do some reading. Yes. You
know, and right now Yeah. Um but
probably this is probably something you
probably won't play until the youngest
starts their first full day. Yeah. Job
probably. But at least first their first
full day schooling. Yes. So that's a
what like uh I think I'm still like two
three years away from that. Yeah, it
might be. That might be the case. We
Jason and I just because of we haven't
played yet. It's just we haven't played.
We're not there yet. It's too much of a
Yeah, we've got other stuff on the Yeah,
I'll send you a I'll send you a picture
of the bookshelf that I have of the
books. It's an amazing amount of stuff
they Yeah. books, too. Oh, it's it's a
book. It's it's a book. No, no, there
are tons of RPG. But are there novels?
There very few yet. Okay. Jesse, you
were gonna you were gonna say something.
Yeah, we'll we'll side we'll talk about
this another another way. Well, you're
showing this picture of like uncharted
space. Yeah. Like like it gets like
these interesting questions of like, you
know, are we alone in the universe? And
if there are alien species out there
like or species like as intelligent as
we are out there, and there's no reason
why there shouldn't be, but maybe there
aren't. Who knows, right? um you know
how long would it take for an
intelligent species to colonize a galaxy
or if
um if an intelligent species wanted
to what what type of time frames are we
looking at here and should we should we
have seen the the attempts of
colonization of a galaxy or not by now
um and so you you know that's when you
show me that picture and I see like that
little piece of the Milky Way has been
charted in that game really good
question then you started asking, okay,
well, like, you know, how long would it
take? And oh, and I have, you know, all
these questions about the what's that
called? The um the paradox. I forget the
name of the paradox. Oh, uh fairies
paradox. Yeah, fairies paradox. Like,
why haven't we heard from anybody yet? I
I Oh, man. But the question of That's
such a good question, Jesse. I And I
apologize. I I can see the cover from my
high school library. So, I like this is
this is I think this came out like late
late 80s, early 90s. Like, this is old
now. It's a silver cover
and it was don't it was something like
the I can't remember the the author. It
was something like um like the
Millennium Project. I don't remember but
um it this was this was coming out like
when Curtzwhile was coming out with his
big stuff like it was a lot of futurism
thinking. Anyways, I bring this up
because I remember skimming through this
and and whoever it was took on this
question of how long would it take us if
we were the only ones, for example, to
colonize the galaxy. And it was
something ridiculously brief like a
million years like with sub luminal
speeds like it like in just kind of that
I mean big for a species, but like in a
million years like you could stretch all
the way, you know? I mean, I'm sure
there were a lot of assumptions and I
mean, so little was known, but still.
So, there's there's a a paper came out
or I don't know if it was a paper um a
group of people came out with um some
calculations on this in the last like
five years. I wish I had it off the top
of my head and it was just asking those
exact same questions and they based it
around like um the idea of like if you
if you were to send a robotic spacecraft
to a place that had the ability to like
regenerate itself or recreate itself.
So, like imagine like shooting something
off to the next star system and then it
lands on a planet and it makes new
spacecraft. Yep. And then they go
proliferating out into the into the
galaxy. Yeah. You can do the whole thing
in like the whole galaxy in like a
million years or something like that.
Very short order on the scale of of
universe. Yeah. Yeah. Right. And then if
that is the case, if that's possible,
then probably it should have happened by
now. And then wouldn't then they have
been here and wouldn't we have seen
that? But we for I think we forget. I
think the reason I'm thinking about this
is because you showed me that picture uh
Brad and you showed me the picture and
you showed me a small little piece and
I'm like even with all those
calculations and even with them saying
oh yeah it's just a million years and
they could it could happen. I don't
know. I think that the space is so big
and the the distances are so large and
the time frames are so long, like even
if someone even if there was a group
that was trying to colonize, you know,
that could easily just die out and then
they made it like a just as far as that
map was, that charted map, they made it
that far and they're like, me, we're
done. Or something happens and it just
stops and like the g like and that's
just one galaxy.
The the universe, the the Milky Way is
so big. There's hundreds of billions of
stars.
There's the idea that there would that
it would get colonized so quickly, I
think is technically possible, but I
don't know like with it being so big, I
just don't know if it would actually
happen. Yeah. It's it's one thing to say
like maybe there was a single artifact
left on a planet. It's another thing to
say like there are McDonald's all the
way along the route. Right. I I mean
it's I think I think you bring up a
really Okay, I'm gonna have to I think I
know the paper you're talking about.
I've got to find that because now I want
to read that. I think we have I think we
have a I think we have another reason
for you to come back because now we're
going to have a whole episode to talk
about. Just start we'll just I'll read
the paper. Yeah, we'll just talk about
this. No, no. We're We want to talk to
you uh after you've started reading
Traveler.
No, we'll have you back next week.
Oh my god. And I will have not actually
slept at all. Yeah. Oh, and
two weeks straight. Yeah. Reading Bunch
Traveler. Yeah. This Yeah. You you you
may find it interesting. You may you may
look at it and go, "This is kind of like
like too adjacent to to some of my to
some of the stuff I work with and maybe
this isn't my thing. It may be one way
or the other, but it is I'll check it
out." Yeah. Yeah. It's it's worth
checking out just because it's it's just
it's it's very cool the what with what
they've been able to do over the years.
So, but hey, we have kept you up. It's
so late by you. God. Yeah. And what is
it? No, wait. Because isn't it 11 by
you? No, no, it's 9ine for me. Oh,
you're an hour behind. I'm Mountain
Time. Oh. Oh, wait. Jason, you guys are
ahead. You've been telling me that he's
I was sure you were Oh, wait. Wait.
Where are you, Jesse? Calgary.
Calgary. Why would I kept thinking he
Wait, where's John? You've been thinking
he's You've been thinking that cuz he
teaches York. He's He's He's on Toronto
time. Yeah. Toronto time is would be 11,
right? Yeah. Yeah. But I'm I'm in
Calgary right now. Oh, well, I feel much
less guilty. Good. That's I'm doing
Yeah, I'm doing my Pat leave away from
Toronto. Oh, good for you. I I I was
trying to figure out before we logged on
like what a nice guy. He's willing to
stay up so late. I could never have done
that at that point in parenting. I just
I wouldn't have even been functional. Oh
man, the Yeah, kids are wonderful,
wonderful, amazing little Tasmanian
devils, you know, and you know, the the
little phase only lasts so long, but
man, they're little basket cases, aren't
they? And they're uh we have two girls,
and the three-year-old is like being a
three-year-old, and the three-month-old
is being a three-month-old. Yeah. And
it's it's tiring and it's amazing all at
the same time. You know, it's my my
girls are 17 and 19. One's a junior in
high school, one's a freshman in
college. Oh my gosh. And I will say and
Brad's are even older. And I will say
I'm so I'm very strongly biased in favor
of having girls. But um uh I will say
and I really mean this. I have found
absolutely every developmental stage to
be even more fun than the last one.
That's what it's really felt like. every
every month or you know Charlie is our
is our oldest and you know right now
she's like so cool and then but she was
so cool like two months ago. Uh so yeah
and like I'm she's and she you know we
had a whole phase with planets so like I
was loving that. Right. We she's she's a
little off of it right now, but we got
all these space books and we have planet
stuffies and stuff and she had like them
all memorized and like their brains are
so absorbent and they're just pulling
stuff in and they they they're like I
you know we I used to talk about this
when I used to work at museums like kids
kids aren't born scientists, right?
They're little scientists. Yeah. That
all they want to do is just play and
learn. And that's just what science is.
Except when you get into the world of
science, it's super rigorous, right?
Where there's rules and you got to
follow them and but it's it's just
playing, right? It's just playing with
things and but kids, they're doing that
just naturally. And you could see her
just like trial erroring trial and
erroring things and and making
connections. And it's it's a fun
reminder of like all the little that
that play and story are like central
then when you're three and when you're
30 or 40 or 50, right? It it it play is
like plays and playing and stories is is
like central to it's like the human
condition. It's like so like 10 years
from now we can hear his daughter like
but dad I don't want to read your book.
I
know. Like this. I'm I It must be done.
Come on, kid. Jason's translating
because he has a book and his daughters
are saying that to him right now. Oh,
they're never going to read anything I
write. And I I wouldn't expect it. It's
a It's a point of opposition. They are.
They will deliberately say no even if
they're interested in it.
Yeah, there's some truth to that. Jesse,
thank you so much for taking time with
us. It's it's really been a pleasure.
You're welcome. This is uh Thanks so
much for the interest in the book. I I
would talk about it forever. Um so
thanks for having me on. It was a great
combo.
[Music]
Jesse, thanks for joining us. Hopefully
that uh any traveler discussion doesn't
cause you any problems at home. Um I I
have to say I didn't mention this to you
since we since we talked with him.
um not working in
academia. Um I find I found the
discussion the brief discussion you had
about
um full-time educator, full-time
researcher and all that that they have
up at at York Mhm. and all of that.
That's cool. I found that interesting to
me.
um and how it
allows teachers to focus on teaching and
finding the best ways to teach at a
major major university research
university and and to me that's just
absolut Jesse I'm glad that we had you
were you would discuss that with us
because I find that absolutely
fascinating. I would love to see
hopefully someday something like that
permeate here in the states. I know it's
probably not in the cards at any time.
Well, I mean it it is it originated
here, but it did, but it has been very
slow to gain traction. Uh for some for
for a number of reasons, some quite
prudent. Um I was unaware of it though,
totally unaware of it uh at York and and
so it just it it I agree with you. It
was really interesting hearing about
that and and to me that's my first time
hearing anything about it. So I don't
know, you know, I don't know the story
behind a lot of it, but it's just to me
that's a that it it it's an interesting
topic for for me. Yeah. Being someone
who isn't in teaching and isn't in
research and it isn't in education,
right? Um but let's head over to uh
let's head over and have a seat in the
Lon Cafe. Um, what has been on your desk
or um in your hands in terms of reading
or writing? Or in on on my speakers
primarily in my car, but sometimes in my
ears. So, you know where I'm going with
this. Uh, uh, Michael Dismuk, front of
the podcast, thank you for the
recommendation. Um, using the free
monthly download through Audible. I'm
not an audiobook person. Um, I've been
listening to an audio book now. I've
only ever listened to two audio books
beforehand. One of them was actually I I
can tell you here what the first one was
Star Trek Strange New Worlds: The High
Country by John Jackson Miller was like
I think it was the first Strange New
Worlds novel to come out uh sanctioned
novel and I listened to that in the car
on the way to see you guys my last
Milwaukee visit and finish it on the way
back. So that puts Was that Was that the
Shatner visit? Yes. Yes. Oh, that was a
fullon That was a That was a full-on tre
visit. That was a full-on trek visit.
Yes. And then I also listened um for fun
be because I thought it would be just
interesting. I've I've read all of the
uh Shakespearean adaptations of Star
Wars by Ian Deser, but I I've read them
all. They're all on my shelf or will be
once the remodel's done. Uh, but I
thought that would be fun and short to
listen to. I wonder what they do on
audiobook and it's hilarious. It's like
it's it's like British oldtime British
radio. It's so good. But anyways, I I
wanted to try something new and Michael
had recommended it and I've really
enjoyed it. So, as we're recording, it's
about 12 12 and 1/2 hours. I've got
about 2 and 1/2 left. Okay. I'm I'm
listening to I am I'm audio reading A
Stitch in Time by Andrew Robinson who
played him as an actor. He and he's
wonderful as a voice. Is he? He is. Uh
he narrates his book which he wrote for
the uninitiated. You should stop
listening now. Just kidding. He played
Garrick on DS9 on Star Trek DS9. Oh,
phenomenal character. So this novel
phenomenal. This novel is essentially a
character study of Garrick and it's so
plausible and you know we know so little
about Kardashia and both pre and post
Dominion War and so the novel is
essentially written as a missive to Dr.
Julian
Basher, but it's interspersed. The
majority of chapters are him simply
recollecting his childhood, his
adolescence, his young adulthood, uh, on
Kardashia, elsewhere on DS9. And it's
it's it's this really interesting,
well-ritten story that is not glib at
all. It's I I was just thinking actually
on the way home from the office this
afternoon uh listening to it the story
got really complex like this is this is
legitimate literature and um you know
it's not something normally I would read
or in this case listen to but it's so
interesting I did to conclude I I tried
to find a printed copy because you know
my deal so anything I've listened to
like if I listen to it or if I've read
it on a digital I buy the book.
Otherwise, it just doesn't feel right to
me. I can't do that with this unless I'm
willing to pay something like 140 bucks
and up because it has become such a
collector's item. Wow. I know. I had no
idea. So, anyways, that's what's been on
my table, so to speak. I am nearly done
uh listening to the audio book of
Robinson's A Stitch in Time, which is a
Star Trek Deep Space 9 story. Um, I I
really recommend it if you are at all
interested in Kardashia or Kardashian
anything. If you enjoy, as we do very
much, the character, if you want a bit
of Trek, if you simply want a really
interesting
book, this is it. So, yeah, Michael,
thank you for the recommendation. I I
can't say see I I've pondered doing it
on the Kindle now. My reading um my
reading time has been limited because um
well this is almost entirely in the car.
This is like 80 80% or more has been on
commutes. And you and you have a
different type of commute. I've you know
I started a new position as of as of the
time we record this it will be it's it's
been three weeks. My commute on average
is about 20 to 30 minutes and mine is
barely 20. Oh, see. So, I' I've been
chipping away. I've been chipping. Maybe
maybe I should just do the same thing
cuz cuz if it's only 20 minutes, it
can't hurt. And um and I'm and I listen
to music. Um but um you know I I'm I'm I
haven't done I don't do I don't do talk
radio. The last time I I commuted
regularly to work um was about 10 years
ago. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Um Brad. Yeah. Um
and so I I have to get used to things
again. And the last time I commuted
from, and that was a commute out to the
suburbs, the last time I commuted into
the city Oh, yeah, man. was 25 years
ago. Yeah, I was going to say. Um, so
it's a different So, I'm still learning
routes and everything like that. Um, I I
think I did mention before
um uh Brandon Sanderson I picked up.
Have you Have you started reading? I
have. I have not just because um you've
been so busy. Now that I'm in my third
week, I have found I'm starting to get
my equilibrium. Yeah. In terms of what
I'm going to do about
eating and lunch. Yeah. Cuz you were
your plan was to read these during your
lunch breaks where you could just kind
of tune out, relax. Yes. And I found
areas where I can sit. Um there's
actually um there's actually a couple
like conference type rooms that are like
um rooms where you can go and kind of
like relax in. Nice. Um so I think I'm
going to I won't be able Well, it's
we're wrapping up this week. I won't be
able to do it this week, but I'm
thinking middle of next week I'm going
to start doing that. Good for you. Um,
I've picked up some some like microwave
type meals that I can do that. Um, you
know, cuz I I They're probably Hot
Pockets, aren't they? No. Good grief.
No. Oh. Um, in the news today, man dies
at work. Yeah. Yeah. Hot
pockets for that. That was What was
that? We were all here cuz good is bad
and bad is cool. Yeah. Jim Jim Gaffigan
has a really bad hot a really good but
bad hot pocket skin. Uh, I'm guessing
that would get the explicit rating on
Apple podcast. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Really,
really bad. Um, but those are in, but
um, you know, I've had to for probably
the past month and a half because of
prep for new job and starting a new job.
Um, I've had to kind of table the RPG
stuff, but y um, I have, much to my
wife's chagrin, a stack of um, Warhammer
role playing books that that have been
waiting for you for a while. Yeah. And
um I haven't looked at those yet, but
you and I were texting just the other
just I think it was yesterday or was it
the day before about Mindam Mind Jammer?
Mind Jammer. Yeah. Yeah. Yesterday.
Yeah. Um and about Oh, maybe that was
two days ago. Whatever. Whatever. And
and the idea of maybe getting back into
things. And I even thought about um
about um opening up Gersps again. And um
Good, cuz I bought that book so that we
can play. Yeah. And because I I I'm
feeling a little bit of I feel a
hankering for some world building and
continuing it. Yeah. because because I
have some notes on some of the forks in
the adventure that I want to have
available. Okay. So, okay. So, let's
talk about this for a sec cuz you and I
haven't talked about the gersps plan in
quite some time. Not not since I mean
not since before the holidays probably.
Oh, you're right. Oh, man. Probably
since probably since before
Thanksgiving. Probably October,
November, early November. We haven't
talked about it much. Yeah. May. Oh my
god. Maybe. So, okay. So, remind me. Are
are cuz you're going to GM this. Are
you Is it Is is it going to be high
fantasy? Okay. So, here's I'll give you
I'll give you a
teaser. Um you can play
um you can create a character. Um, I
want your character to be
um current
age. Um, so um wait, my current age or
this period? Current current age. Okay.
Um, you'll have you will I am going to
allow you to roll for some psionics cuz
I know you love that type of I I do. I
do. I love that robots. That is in lie
that is in lie of magic. I like it.
Okay. Okay. So, um, as to the era of
what it's going to be, whether it's
going to be high
fantasy, sci-fi,
um, low fantasy, dark and perilous, the
answer to that is yes.
Okay.
So, um, that's the only answer I'm going
to be able to give. You're not going to
pull a cthulu on me, are you?
In what ter? What do you mean by that?
Well, like this isn't going to be
Lovecraftian.
I I neither one of us are really
Lovecraftian either. No. Um I I'll to be
not to give I don't want to give too
much away, but I haven't I haven't um I
haven't dug into anything Lovecraftian.
Okay. In this. Okay. Um there really
isn't any source there isn't any really
GERP source material that's truly
Lovecraftian, you know, because they
don't have any license for it. Um
So, I haven't I haven't pulled up any um
there's nothing there's nothing with a
lot of tentacles that I've gotten
um fair enough involved in it. But I
will I will say that
um um you'll
um you'll be on you know you'll I love
watching you trying to dance around what
you've already thought through without
giving any of it away. Yeah. you've you
you'll not you'll um you're going to be
on you're going to be on you're going to
be on your toes and just when you think
when you think you know where you are
you won't be
story of my life. Okay. I know how to
and and ultimately it's written in a way
where um episode by episode if we have
guests that want to join us um we can
have them do that. So, if a if a if a
Brian or an Aaron or or your brother or
someone else um wishes to jump in, okay,
um we can do that. And if we don't, we
don't. But um I've I've I had read a lot
of material prior to the holiday on um
Duet Gaming and Gersps, and it's and
it's it it's not uncommon. It's a game
that's been around forever, obviously.
Um so
um you know ultimately um you know what
what Manny dancing around this. No no no
what I what I can tell I'll I'll this
this will give it away a little bit.
What appealed to me about gersps is
ultimately you know it's the it's a
generic universal role playing system
right um the universes in which you can
play are infinite. Yep. anything
intriguing. Okay. Well, you heard it
here first. I'm not sure what we just
heard, everybody, but we heard it here
first. Yeah, that that gave you nothing
away other than the fact that um I my my
thinking is um you it sounds to me like
with there's another project that you
and I are working on. We might have some
um we might have we might have some
activities in March that we are going to
attend. Yeah. we'll when we're at the
point that it's more appropriate to say
anything then and that might be a while
then we'll we'll talk about it. I think
I think that being the case um my
thinking is that maybe you and I could
have a session zero for gers later in
March. Perfect. Um or maybe early April
depending upon the timeline with that.
That sounds Yeah, that sounds that
sounds very good. Seems like it seems
like that seems far out, but just be the
way timelines go. No, look, it's already
things move fast given that this episode
drops in early March. I think that's I
think that's but but I mean we're we're
recording this a bit in advance and and
it's still that's just how it's going to
be. I mean, I can't believe I can't
believe that we're already this far into
2025 already. I Oh, I know. I know. You
know, turn on the uh the news. It'll be
even less believable. No, no, no.
There's nothing on the news to me that
to be honest with you, everything on the
news is believable yet unbelievable.
Yeah, it's unbelievably believable.
We'll leave it at that. On that note,
speaking of unbelievably believable,
uh next week everybody, next week, next
episode, couple weeks from now, uh we're
going to have a returning guest on the
show. Uh but they will be talking about
something really new, really different.
You could say pretty
marvelous. The as Fernando Llamas used
to say, it's marvelous. Exactly. Thank
you. In April, believe it or not,
everyone, Dyson Mind hits its fourth
year or its four-year anniversary, I
should say. I guess we're in year four.
I don't know how that's happened. Uh
Brad and I have been talking about this.
I guess it's mostly just been me talking
to myself about this. B and I need to
talk more about this, but um we've
agreed we're going to spend that episode
looking back live video. No video. Green
screen. Green screen. Brad and cosplay.
Yeah. Um nope. Nope. That'll get us
pulled off the air. We're going to spend
that episode in April looking back on
the first four years and and kind of
taking stock. We did this a little bit
for our third anniversary. This one's
going to be more
intentional. Um, I have thoughts. We'll
talk about it. But, um, but for years, I
think given that we questioned would
this podcast even go for more than 6
months, and that was when we were doing
monthly episodes on a very special
episode of Blossom. Exactly. So, um,
we're going to have lots to talk about
and and because we have lots to think
about as we round out year 4 and then
look to the future, which is just sort
of remarkable. We hope you will all be
there with us. In the meantime, uh, you
know the deal as either spring or
autumn, depending on where you live, uh,
is on its way. Be well, stay well. We
will see you in a couple of weeks.
[Music]
