[Music]
Welcome to Dyson Mind, a podcast hosted
by Brad Brown and Jason Kaufman to
explore the intersection of life, games,
science, science, music, philosophy, and
creativity through interviews with
leading creatives. All are welcome in
this space.
[Music]
Before we start, this is actually going
to be a phenomenal episode, but I wanted
I wanted to know if you wanted to do
your sting impression be like you just
did before we I'm just not going to.
Ding. You should have heard it. Ross,
next time you join us for the episode,
we're going to have we're gonna have
Jason do it. Well, and remember I that
was actually an homage to a Friends
episode.
Really? Which was an homage to a Sting
song. Yes. Roxan. Yes. And he's saying
he's saying the start of Roxanne saying
Ross Ken and it was actually really well
done. Thank you, sir. I appreciate that.
I think it was really well done. So
everybody refused to do it. I refuse to
do it publicly. You know the deal. Go
pause this episode. Google Ross can
friends and then come on back. All
right. So, pivot pivot pivot pivot.
Okay. Okay. There's our friends. There's
our friend stick for the week. Okay.
Moving on. Cosmir.
So, we had we had we had Merrick Moyer
on a couple weeks back. Yes. And
phenomenal episode. Yep. And um you know
what's funny is is I inadvertently had
um must have pushed um Gemini uh because
I use an Android phone and and and I hit
cosmir and literally it was giving me on
Gemini like a like a dissertation on
cosmir as this was going on. That's not
spooky at all. No, that's cool. Yeah. Um
but Merrick um so much fun talking with
Merrick and then like days after we
talked with him, he connected us with
Ross to Ross and um and little did we
know that we would have such
I a fun time talking with Ross. So Ross
is Ross is just the nicest person first
of all. Nicest person. just such a such
a fun,
gentle, joyful person with this
infectious smile. And he spent this time
with us talking about this game he gets
to design and he loves. And I mean, it
was pretty cool. I'm, you know, I I will
say that that if you've never played an
RPG before, Ros, if you sit with Ross
and hear him talk about this stuff, you
will want to play Yeah. Just after 10
minutes, listen. just after 10 minutes.
In all fairness though, we already
wanted to play Cosmir.
It's the this this game based on uh
Brandon Sanderberg's uh Sanderson. Did I
just do what I What? Oh my god. Help me
out here. Sanderberg, I don't know where
you I don't know where you were going.
Sandberg Hall. Were you Were you
channeling a university here or what?
Sorry. Okay, so we're peeling back the
the fourth wall. Well, let's just let's
just be perfectly honest. Let's just be
perfectly honest. Tonight we are
Yeah, this is the third set of
recordings we've done in the past two
hours. It's getting a little late. We're
getting a little punchy and um and every
one of these is totally different than
the one that came before it. and and and
we love and what's funny is is that is
that we we love talking about each
individual episode, but we'll get these
little mixups in what we say
periodically. You may not even hear it.
You'll may hear a stop and start on
something because and then Jason will
know to make an edit and so you won't
ever even know it. But um and I'm just
going to leave it in. It's just maybe
you'll leave maybe you'll leave this one
in because now we have the explanation
here. But um but it's it we literally
are doing we're doing intro outros
tonight for our guests because very
quickly um there we both have busy
schedules. Yeah, we're running into
right into a bottleneck for the schedule
and it just happened that we've had
these phenomenal guests like three in
not even two weeks. I mean, we just
lucked out and and Ross was the Ross was
the culmination for us to be able to
have to be able to have Ross join us and
be able to talk and get in depth on Oh,
so cool. the Sanderson verse and then
talk about um Cosmir and the RPG and
kind of his genesis into writing and all
of that. I mean, he has an incredible
story. And of course, Cosmir is based on
these incredible stories, these these
quote unquote worlds of Stormlight and
Mistorn. Um, that are just so
interesting. And and what attracted us
was the chance and and we get a little
bit into this. Don't worry, Ross
promised he's going to come back and and
he's coming back. But um
this notion that the game is built
around hard magic as a mechanic and um
oh man I mean just
it's just it's all so interesting and um
you know as this as this drops this
episode we won't be far away from the
first PDF officially releasing. So, um,
Misborn RPG the Stormlight RPG.
Stormlight RPG. Stormlight cuz Mi M
Stormlight is 2025. Misborn is going to
be 2026. So, so don't be surprised at
all if late summer, early fall, the two
of us are talking about maybe even
dedicating an episode to
the the cosmir mechanic, game, whatever.
It would Don't Don't be surprised. Don't
be surprised. I mean, don't be surprised
because it will happen and cuz we're
going to what we want to talk about.
[Music]
Ross Lizer is an asexual geek,
mathloving theater and choir kid, and
forever GM by choice who specializes in
playerf facing design. He's worked many
jobs from math teacher to grocery store
pizza maker to flooring wholesaler to
landscaper, but he's a lot happier
making games full-time. Since March of
2017, he's operated under the brand
Outlandish Adventure Productions with
products that spark whimsy and capture
the imagination, but with a serious
focus on system syntax, narrative
mechanical cohesion, interparty balance,
and positive gameplay experiences for
both the player and game master. His
body of work primarily includes
independent third-party supplemental
products for D&D 5e on the Dungeon
Masters Guild, but now he's a senior
designer on the core design team of the
award-winning Cosmir RPG as a decade
long Sander fan who's utterly obsessed
with the cosmir's magic systems and
having an absolute blast working
alongside the most wonderful team in the
world.
[Music]
After talking for about 20 minutes and
missing probably a good chunk of convo,
um we finally decided to hit record.
Ross, thanks for joining us tonight.
This is only going to be a five minute
episode because we covered all the good
stuff. No, not even close. We probably
still have another two hours worth of
content that we're going to try to cram
into an hour here. Um thank you both so
much for having me. Oh, we're thrilled
to have you here. Are you kidding? Yeah.
And there's so much we can talk about
that we've already kind of we've already
like in email come up with different
threads of conversation. Yeah.
Apparently Ross is the kind of guy who
like already on email like he's telling
us like giving us background like
getting into like like thoughtful
meaningful stuff and it's like h is it
is it Wednesday yet? I very excitable
conversationalist. I think everyone I I
spent the entirety of Gen Con last year
in the Brother Wise room that I was not
being paid to work in other than the
demo sessions I was scheduled to run
literally just because the energy in
there was so amazing. I talked to so
many fans about what I love about our
system because it was the first time
anyone in the public had gotten access
to playing it um at Gen Con last year.
So there were so many questions and uh
it was so fun to be in there. I I had to
drink so much throat coat. I have a mug
of it right now. Yes.
Okay. So, let me let me pitch us off
with with a question. And I know I mean
there's so much to talk about and and
we'll get there, but but based on just
our chat right before we hit record and
like our email chat that's been going on
for days now, uh which has been really
lovely, really interesting. Um, I think
a great place to start with whatever
you're comfortable sharing would be, uh,
because you're obviously deeply
affiliated with the upcoming Cosmir RPG.
But very, but before we jump into that,
because we want to talk a lot about that
and the mechanics and all that good
stuff, how did you end up working on
Cosmir? All right. So, this is going to
be a bit of a story because such a go. I
love telling this story because there's
so much serendipity to it. And it's
actually going to start before I
graduated college over 10 years ago.
Uh, so I was first introduced to the
cosmir by my mom uh who is a voracious
reader. We have very similar tastes in
media. Uh, and she read a book called
Mistorborn the Final Empire. and she
said, "Ross, you need to read this. You
are going to be obsessed with the magic
system."
Uh, and I have always been a huge fan of
magic systems. I love fantasy for that
reason and interesting ways technology
is used in sci-fi, too. And I think
Brandon Sanderson puts it best when he
says that the cosmir is fantasy but with
sci-fi world building. And I think that
that that's what makes it so interesting
for people uh as really kind of a buyin
element. Um but so I get really deep
into it. I read all of the available
Misborn books in less than a month. I
was so I was so deeply into it. went
straight into Stormlight uh when I got
after it, which is still my favorite
book series of all, especially with the
recently released Wind and Truth, which
I think brings the first half of the
Stormlight Saga to a remarkably
climactic conclusion. Um, and so cut to
I am now working out I'm I teach her
trying to find a permanent position.
Yeah. And I begin working on the Dungeon
Master Guild. uh creating like mostly
playerf facing content, my own full
classes. I made nine of those. I began
collaborating with a person that I
actually mentored with named Benjamin
Huffman. He was he was the guy who
released the probably the single most
popular DM skil class of all time uh the
Pugilist. And I found him on Patreon,
supported him at his highest tier, which
was send me in your stuff so that I can
critique it for you, basically. Oh,
that's cool. and uh and he apparently
liked my stuff, my designs
sensibilities, and we started making a
series together called the complete
handbook series uh where it was just
creating new magic items, new feats, new
spells, new subasses for a whole bunch
of D&D 5e official classes. And that
culminated in a project called the
Ultimate Adventurers Handbook, where uh
it's literally the same length page-wise
as the official 5D players handbook. It
has over 100 subasses in it. Um because
it it kind of brought the entire series
together with updated stuff for that
time. And I just got really into it. I
started my own Patreon, started doing
monthly designs that were based on uh
patron recommendations.
And uh throughout all this time, I was
still reading the cosmir in the
background and very excited about it.
When I got to the point where I had no
cosmir left,
I realized that it was this beautiful
interconnected tapestry of a universe.
It is not a multiverse. Uh it is one
kind of galaxy that can be traversed by
a special magical means. So need to go
too deep into it right now. Yeah. But I
decided that I needed to get a better
look at the full picture. So I began a
year and a halflong reread of the entire
cosmir in speculated chronological
order. Oh wow. Jesus speculated
chronological order. You said say more
about that though. What what do what do
we mean by that? So there was not until
wind and truth. We didn't have a super
definitive timeline. Okay. Of when
certain series took place compared to
other series. Okay. Yeah. Relative to
one another. Um okay. So, but I wanted
to kind of see kind of get more of the
hints of what was happening in the
background because Sanderson is a master
portion. Right. So, you you read these
interled across the series on this
reread. Yes. Jeez. Um like jumping back
and forth between uh Mistorn, Alantress,
War Breaker, Stormlight, and uh the many
nollas of of the Arcanum Unbounded
collection. um just to this is before
the secret projects had released which
are a whole other $40 million
Kickstarter uh that Sanderson was a part
of. Uh but when I finished that I had
just finished the the last currently
available Cosmir book two years late so
two weeks later
calls went out for designers for the for
what was at the time the Stormlight RPG.
That's cool. And I'm like I feel
enormously qualified for this right now.
Not to mention, it is a series that I
had wanted to make TJG content for. On
my Patreon, there's actually a Way of
the Farukimist Monk and uh a uh Oath of
the Windrunner Paladin uh which are both
references to Cosmir. Yep.
And uh so I applied. I uh I actually
couldn't find the application link at
first, so I went to the Brother Wise
Games contact page and left just the
most passionate cover letter of my life.
Uh I got back Johnny O'Neal uh creative
director of the Cosmir RPG got back to
be himself. Nice. Uh to give me a link
to apply and I never heard back.
Y which is not just not how most people
think the story would go from there. Uh
this was in September. I submitted this
application. I was told that we would
probably hear back by November. Uh
November came and went. Uh didn't get an
email. I'm sure they were swamped in
applicants.
Things get lost in the shuffle. I
understand. Yep. Um cut to April when I
receive an email uh from the at the time
project manager of of what was known as
the Stormlight RPG at the time, Anthony
Joyce Rivera, saying, "Hey, we're
looking for pre-alpha play testers." you
interested?
Uh, so literally in I kind of went in
with this mentality of if I'm going to
be a play tester, yeah, I'm going to be
the best play tester they have. Yeah.
And see if it can create any networking
opportunities. Good for you. So, in one
week, I organized three different play
test sessions and ran all of them uh
with different groups of people. Yeah.
Uh, and I gave and it just so happened
that uh, Anthony Joyce Rivera asked if
he could drop if we were doing any
online sessions. If we dropped him a
link, he tried to see if he could drop
in to answer any questions we had and
interact with us. Luckily, he could on
my very last play test session and I was
able to talk to him about all the
insights.
Uh, and my favorite thing about this is
I paid very close attention to this
alpha, this pre-alpha packet to the
point where I noticed that the section
that was about the Stormlight Abilities
was not called Stormlight or Radiance or
Surges. It was called Investigure.
And so I asked him,
is this more than just a Stormlight RPG?
Right? Because I noticed this intricacy
about the way the chapter was
structured.
Uh, and he had to smile and lie to be
thirsty. Uh, but it turns out that that
very week, the very next week, Johnny
had a list of names of people he was
considering uh contacting about a
twomonth opportunity to work on the
Stormlight RPG. Showed it to Anthony
Rivera. Anthony recognized my name, and
that Wednesday I was in an interview
with Johnny. Neat.
Uh, and I was initially signed for a
two-month contract to, surprise
surprise, work on some of the Radiant
Paths and Surges. I am obsessed with the
magic systems of the Invested Arts. Uh,
the Radiant Pads and Surges especially
are some of my favorite magic in
anything ever. So when they needed a
person that would work on all of that
for the two most iconic of the Radiant
orders, uh, Windrunner, which is
represented by the perspective and
probably main protagonist of the series,
Kaledan, and Lightweaver, who is another
major perspective character, Chalan,
uh, I was over the moon. And what they
didn't know is that all of this was
happening in the midst of the OGL
crisis.
Yeah.
So, um, I had for the past year and a
half at this time been working on a
hardcover release that was the biggest
solo project I had ever endeavored in my
entire life. I spent more than $4,000 on
it out of my own pocket. Geez. And
because of delays due to the print on
demand process, I couldn't release it
until two months after the OJ. Yeah. and
it is still to this day the biggest
financial failure of my entire career.
Well, give it time. You got decades
ahead of you.
Um, and but so what they didn't know is
that they were offering me this contract
position assuming that I had full-time
employment, but I was sustaining myself
full-time prior to the OGL crisis on my
DMs guild passive income and my Patreon.
I was actually I I almost every CLA
thing I've ever released on the Dams
Guild is a gold bestseller or higher.
Okay. Um uh so I was pretty well I was
pretty successful on the dungeon master
guild big time. Um and so I was making a
pretty good passive income because the
weird thing about the DM skil at the
time was every time you released
something it put more eyes on your past
stuff. Yeah. So those things would sell
better every single time you released
your product. Yeah, man. Uh, so
uh, so but I was suddenly out of work. I
had been looking for over a month trying
to find a system that spoke to me the
same way that DND 5De had. And then in
comes this opportunity for the
Stormlight RPG. Yeah. Here's the
serendipity of it. Yeah. Unbelievably
serendipitous. The timing out. Um, we
get to the end. I we get to my first
month review of working with uh lead
designer Andrew Fischer was pretty much
my only point of contact on the team
where I was doing this work. Uh and I
but Anthony Josea called me in for my
one month review and uh we just we had a
chat and he said, "So uh do you have any
questions for me?" And I went, "Yeah, um
I'm not really getting like too much
feedback. Uh I we're just kind of like
talking. I make the changes. We move on
and things are going pretty well. But I
just I just want to know like how am I
doing for you all? And he goes, "Well,
I'm going to be honest with you. You're
three weeks ahead of where we needed you
to be." Uh because they did not realize
I was working on this full-time uh when
they did not intend for me to be. Uh and
then he kind of got a look on his face
and he asked me, "What's your bandwidth
like?"
And I said,"I will make bandwidth for
this project in the back of my mind
screaming," they don't have to know I'm
not working on anything else right now.
That's right. Uh and so, uh he said,
"I'm going to recommend you to be
ascended to the core design team." Cool.
Yeah. Uh and so I've been working on
that for almost two years now, man. Oh,
man. Um and it's the team is
unbelievably amazing. I love everybody.
uh the leadership fantastic and just the
work is the most satisfying work I've
ever done. It's truly been a dream
project and I am so so lucky to be here.
That's so cool
that that's man
succinct. But it is that is just that's
the kind of like you know just how it
all kind of fell into place. Mhm. Um
I just love hearing that kind of story
as to how it plays out like that, you
know. Um I just happened to be the kind
of designer they were looking for at the
time. uh which is very player focused uh
very uh like playerf facing especially
with the uh ability to create full like
playable progressions of things and also
my obsession with the invested arts of
the cosmir and all of that. It just
right place right time
and it was unbelievable. So cool. I
Okay, so so thanks for sharing that.
That's just that's just lovely. It's
just really like it's it's just really
lovely. So, let's talk cosmir itself for
a moment. So, we were talking about this
before we clicked record and and you've
been obviously coming back to this again
and again. Um, the magic system kind of
r large. Um, something you said uh
really hooked me and in fact this is why
this is why like I decided to read
Mistorn to begin with and just flipping
through the first pages. like, well,
I'll be darned. There's a like there's a
a scientific rationale, so to speak, for
this magic. And that really like like
Bren and I have talked about this over
the years, like I really like not just
like the high magic, I like hard magic,
right? But I didn't know that, which by
the way is a ter was a term coined by
Brandon Sanderson. I didn't know this
until recently. So there you go. Cuz I
did I never even heard that until we
started learning about cosmare. But it's
completely hooked me like this notion of
I could like I mean I I love sci-fi. I'm
a scientist. Like that's just how I
think. But I still like to play fantasy
time to time. But in Cosmir there's like
there's a system. It's not like you know
you just have a ball of fire and you
throw a missile and whatnot. There's a
really logical system and it makes and
the weird thing is it makes sense. And
if like if you can if you can accept
like the one fundamental conceit for
example that these elements matter in
this way like forget about the
metabolism right like we don't know how
that works right but that but that's how
Star Trek works too right it's it's you
know if you can accept like this one
little piece everything really feels
like real yeah and the really
fascinating thing is that Brandon
actually does work with physics
consultants that's to make sure that
when the m other than the match natural
interferences like the laws of physics
are maintained. So like for example
there is a power in mistborn called iron
ferukamy and with that you can store and
later tap your sword weight. So uh a
person that is very light because
they're storing weight and is like and
is then like going jumping through on
something and then suddenly taps weight
in the middle of that jump they slow
down because of conservation of
momentum. Nice. And vice versa. Uh, so
it's it's he really does bring the
science into the magic and it makes a
lot of sense when you realize that this
is like a very long saga like the cosmir
that that like like the individual books
are are longer than your average. Yes.
Yes. But he he has plans decades from
now we're eventually going to the space
age of the cosmir and it will basically
turn into side fantasy.
Intriguing. So
you just I don't know Ross, you don't
know Jason well enough yet, but that
look just that was the look of the light
bulb going like back in the day I played
all the way through Civilization on the
computer so I could get to Alpha
Centauri and even though it was just the
cut scene at the end. Um, so to that
point, there's something I want to come
back to, but to that point then, Ross,
so the and again I want to Bren, I want
to make sure like we're staying, you
know, be behind behind the line, right?
We we don't want to ask what we're not
supposed to ask, but um but the whole
cosmir system for the RPG, um it's a
quote living RPG system, which I think
is kind of what you're getting at,
right? That that the RPG is intended to
evolve. Uh it so I mean whatever you can
tell us about that because obviously
like we understand well gaming systems
can expand but it sounds from what we've
been seeing online that you know from
all of you guys from Brotherwise and
whatnot it sounds like this potentially
is more than this that it doesn't just
like expand in terms of product but like
maybe the RPG itself will evolve in some
way as Sanderson's story continues to
evolve. So yeah, there are limited
things that I can talk about in this,
but I can tell you that this system was
designed very much with four thinking in
mind. The core plotw weaver system as
it's called and it is a system that we
are going to be releasing uh without the
cosmir IP attached to it. We're going to
have an OGL and an SRD and all of that
so that people can make their own plot
weaver worlds. Uh, it was designed to be
able to facilitate fantasy, science
fiction, horror, like we we have we have
really really fascinating narrative
systems and mechanics in place to so
they make sure that you can adapt it to
almost any genre you need to say. Yeah.
Another threat to employment.
Yep. Yep. Uh to our employment.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, no, no. It's it's
and possibly marriage, too. Um Yeah. Oh
my god. Uh so so we have this wildly
adaptable system that we and you you'll
be able to see like elements of how you
can adapt things. Yes. In terms of when
we move from these stormlight books from
our Stormlight RPG material books to the
Mistorm books. Uh because uh radiance
which are like the magic users in
Stormlight have a very particular way
their magic works. Right. And then
alammancy and furukamy not only were
different from that but they were
different from each other. Right? And so
we have very distinct magic systems that
are happening in these books. And yet
and yet they have these elements of
overlap because every invested art
follows the same core fundamental
principles just refracted through the
properties of what shard capital S shard
basically do is in the area and the
properties of the planet itself.
So presumably
presumably at all of these will have at
least some shared elements of the
mechanics. Yes. Uh so one so there's a
we do have a lot of very intentional
overlaps in certain areas. So for
example uh when a radiant breathes in
storm light and stormlight is like a
glowing gaseous form of investature that
people who have access to that magic can
breathe in and they literally glow.
That's why they're called
uh when they have storm light breathed
in their strength, their speed, their
endurance and durability all improve.
They heal faster uh in all of that. And
so there are certain core elements of
invested healing, invested enhancement
that hold true in almost every system of
invested arts in some way to the point
where we actually took the uh enhance
action that all radiants get access to
and the regenerate action they'll get
access to and put versions of that in
the pure alammancy path for Yeah, that
makes sense.
Yeah.
So watching Brad process. So, I'm pro
I'm pro I just I'm fascinated by this
because because you know like we talked
about like we talked about we were we've
been a little late to the game to the
Sanderson verse and just the idea of of
this this RPG and and the idea of there
being a sandbox version of it that's
really cool. That is Yeah, that that
just blows I'm kind of on blows my mind.
I I haven't
Well, that's not okay. I was looking at
the website earlier today cuz I was
like, h, you know, oh, because of the
one the email I was going to the starter
Kickstarter and then, you know, the uh
the backer kit and all that. I was like,
hm, it's it's apparently it's not too
late to order. And so I was looking at
that stuff, but um but but but I didn't
but I didn't go down the rabbit hole in
in like the other the other website and
like the the information. So I don't so
I want to ask a question, but uh but
forgive me cuz I I just don't know as of
the past month or so what's up and
what's not yet shared. I just I don't
know what it looks like. So if you can't
say anything, that's fine. But I'm
wondering what what can you tell us in
general about the mechanic of Cosmir?
So, uh there's a lot. We actually
released an 80page beta document when we
were in open beta. Okay. So, I can talk
and we also had beta materials released
for the public via demi playing the main
characters and all that too. Beta's not
out there anymore, right? No, that has
been removed to give time for our
digital partners to update it all. Okay.
Yeah. I think the original. Okay. Okay.
Um, so there's archived versions of it
that are out on the internet. Um, I I
know that they have it in the official
Cosmo RPG Discord. Um, I'm not sure
where to find a link for that personally
just because I've been in it since was
created.
That's cool. Um, since before it was
open to the public because of course
it's not publicly available, but if
people happen to go, they might be able
to find it out there somewhere. People
join it all the time. So that link to it
must be somewhere. Must be somewhere.
Okay. Um uh but uh basically the it is a
D20 system because we it was built with
the idea of being an on-ramp for TTRPG
fans to get into RPG to get into the
cosmir. Yeah. And for your cosmir fans
to get into TTRPGs.
So we built it we intentionally built it
with a lot of familiar elements from
other systems. It is a Z20 system. Um,
it uses your modifiers,
uh, very and it also uses a very similar
action system to Pathfinder in terms of
the action points, but it also has a
narrative die uh, similar to like FFG
Star Wars, the plot die. There you go,
Jason. Jason loves that.
Andrew Fischer, our lead designer, was
also lead designer on FFG Star Wars,
right? That's right.
which is one of my absolute
favorite mechanics. Yeah. So, yeah, the
plot die is, I think, an evolution of
that. Uh it's it's in general very
simple. It only it's a d6 with four
different sides. Well, uh where you have
blanks basically whenever there's like a
really tense moment or a mechanic calls
for it, the GM can raise the stakes and
that that just means you add the plot
die to your test roll. If you roll a
blank, uh, fate does not intervene with
that role. All of it's normal. It's
fine. If you get an opportunity, great.
And and a positive tangential benefit
uh is happens in addition to whatever
your test result was. Even on a failure,
a positive thing can happen or on a
positive result, uh, a tangential
positive thing happen. Very very genesis
narrative feel to that, right? Of just
flexing it. Yeah. But Honestly, one of
my favorites is actually the two
different complications
on it. There's a plus two complication
and a plus4 complication where when you
roll this on the plot die, a tangential
negative thing happens.
But you add either the plus two or the
plus4 to your d20.
Yeah, that's cool. That that's that's
clever. And uh what I also really like
is that opportunities and complications
are baked really deeply into the system
to the point where a natural one on your
D20 is also a complication and natural
20 is a is an opportunity. Nice. I like
it. Uh so we have so many things that
key into the opportunity and and
complications special ways they can be
spent for certain mechanics or we have
the general uses you can always use
which is you can give an ally advantage
on their next test. You can regain our
mental resource focus with it if you
have can't think of anything else to do
or you can just have a positive
influential effect on the narrative or
the GM can add a complication to the
narrative. So it's it takes a little bit
to get used to if you're not used to
that kind of narrative gaming. Yeah. But
we we like to think of ourselves as a
narrative game with some crunch. Nice.
Rather than like a really crunchy
system. There's a lot like this.
So, what one of our major goals when
designing this was you have so much
crunch and options when making your
character. It's an extremely fluid
talent system. Uh where we you don't
have a linear path like in Pathfinder.
Yeah. DN D. Yeah. You have you have
talent trees that are I like to describe
them as like Skyrim
where you have different prerequisites
for taking certain talents, but you
start with a single key talent that then
branches off into other talents. Again,
not not unlike what FFG did maybe in
Yeah. Yeah. where you're not locked in.
But also the system is designed with
multipaththing in mind. Okay, that's
nice. So, so yeah, you can freely
whenever you have a level just start a
new path instead of rather than continue
with the one you currently have. That's
cool. And one of the major reasons for
that is because the way radiants work in
Stormlight, no one in their life starts
as a radiant. It is impossible. Okay. Um
and so you actually can't even become a
radiant until level two at the very
earliest. Okay. In our system. Yeah. Uh,
and that's to represent that everyone
has a life before they become a radiant,
just like in movies. Yeah. Interesting.
So, Oh, go ahead. Go ahead. I was going
to I was going to I wanted to backtrack
just because talking about like the play
tests and things like that when you were
doing going back to when you were
talking about the play testing. Um, who
did you get to do that? Were they were
they readers of the cosmir? Did you put
together folks that hadn't done it
before? I was just kind of curious who
you kind of gathered to do it. Uh, so it
has expanded as we've gone on. Uh,
because of course no No, no. I was
talking about like when you when you
were doing like your first play test
before.
So it was just people I knew. Um, uh,
this it was it was very pre-alpha like
the NDA was very tight on this because
they they did not want this stuff
getting out. Yeah. Um and so it was just
literally people that were my friends. I
did two online sessions, one inerson
session. And the thing is I at that time
was the only person in my friend who
I've read the cosmir that okay that was
curious. That said
multiple of the people I ran it for are
now very deep into their own reads
because they love setting so much. Uh um
and uh but the getting back to the idea
of what I got into the multitasking and
all that with a lot of options in
character creation and when you're
leveling up but in play everyone is
shocked at how smooth it was. It is ex
it is very crunchy. Yeah. At like in
like in between sessions when you're
making all your choices but when you're
actually at the table it runs buttery
smooth.
Okay. No, I kind of like that. So, like
the session zeros and the half session
the the in between sessions, but when
you're in the game, it's as the as the
game master and all that, is it is do
you does it, you know, did you feel like
do you feel like there's like
lots of planning beforehand? Does it
feel kind of like buttery smooth in
terms like planning and things like that
just generally speaking for you? Um, so
I will say that your first time creating
a character, it can be a little
overwhelming. Um, and and as a GM, you
certainly do need to have like at least
a it's good to read our rules because
there are certain things that people
coming from DND, coming from Pathfinder
will not be used to. Uh, we are willing
to leave more things like up to GM fiat
than a lot of those systems are because
we are a narrative first system and our
mechanics exist to facilitate narratives
that make you feel like you're in a
Sanderson book. Yeah. Um, but so there
are certain times people want
clarification where it's kind of the
ethos of our system not to give that
kind of prescriptive Yeah.
clarification. And that's definitely
been a sticking point we've had with
certain public and private play testers.
Yeah. In the system. And we we've tried
to smooth out as many of those wrinkles
as we could.
Uh but I'll tell you once you're used to
making a character, um I've made like a
level 18 character in 45 minutes. Um
Gez. Okay. Uh and we're talking like
full magic character. Yeah. Um and uh
and I can often
and this comes down to my own cosmir
knowledge as well because I'm very steep
in the system. Uh I've read the books. I
know a lot about the worlds. But I can
usually plan a three-hour session in
about 15 minutes.
Wow.
Jinx.
I so I I literally have notes here for a
session of Star Trek adventures I'm
planning for Brad and some of the other
guys and I spent like two days and I
don't even have a page of notes and I'm
still just trying to figure out the
backdrop. So I mean part of that is also
because I'm a very improvisational GM
still like I I'm very I very much kind
of just give a setup have some ideas of
where I want things to go but then I
just react to what my players do. Yeah.
But um we have written our adversaries
with very much like there is a tactics
section attached to every single
adversary in the game that tells you
exactly their personality of how they
fight and and how they tend to open
combat scenes. Have you ever have you
ever read um any of the books by Keith
Almond? I have not actually. Oh I just
it's well first of all highly highly
highly recommended. Um but but like he's
written whole books on this for D&D and
you guys are writing this right into the
material. That's cool. Yeah. Um and I
will say one of the things that one of
my favorite aspects of combat in our
system is is the way initiative works.
So, you know, Dn D, Pathfinder, you roll
a d20, you add your you add your
dexterity modifier or anything else and
and you really have control of when you
go. Every single round of combat in our
system is a choice.
You and all of the adversaries choose
either a fast turn or a slow turn.
And then combat progresses. PC fast
turns, NPC fast turns, PC slow turns,
NPC slow turns. So you can go fast and
guarantee you go for all the enemies,
but you only get two action points for
the turn. Or you can go slow and get
three action points, but risk the
enemies disrupting your intent. So it's
very strategic and players in their in
the and the characters in the phases can
take their turns in any order.
So you can facilitate combo with your
fellow players. Okay. And if you get if
you leave enemies the chance to act,
they could also combo you. So uh so it
it's extremely strategic, extremely
narrative. You always have to make that
decision and it always feels like a
decision. It's never obvious.
Oh, that's really nonlinear. That's like
Yeah. What's also really what's also
really really cool that I love um I
believe it we believe we borrow borrowed
aspects of this from Shadows of the
Demon Lord. Um it has a very has a
similar sort of initiative system but
the cool thing is that boss enemies
act on both fast and slow turns.
Interesting. So it's kind of a way uh
and they also have the the kind of
legendary action like ability they can
spend their focus to take. So, uh, so
you you really are having parody between
players and bosses when it comes to
action economy in a way that you do not
see in in Dn D.
Okay, that that's really interesting.
Okay, let's let's talk world building
for a sec. Obviously, it's a really big
world to play in already.
So, so my so well the world is in
quotations. big time quotations, but but
um worlds worlds. Yeah. Um I think you
said I think you said galaxy. I don't
know if that was on or off before we hit
record or after, but really it's galaxy
building really at this point. Yeah. But
you know what I mean, right? In terms of
this this remarkably rich and evolving
setting, right, that's going to take us
into the future, both our time and story
time. So, so I'll give a let me
contextualize this this question and
this thought. So, like one of the things
when it comes to playing sci-fi, because
like I like playing in my favorite IPs.
So, whether I'm playing in Star Trek,
whe Brad, I know you feel the same way
about this. Whether I'm playing in Star
Trek or Star Wars or something else, um
I think we're both very careful like
when we're GMing to not break canon,
right? Right? Cuz we don't want to like
I don't want to invalidate the actual
story because of something stupid I do
in my plans. And then how we just kind
of we like to we don't like we like to
play and and and not we we like to play
within the timeline but not break the
timeline. Right. Right. Because you you
want it all to be like head cannon if
Right. But but in terms of cosmir then
there I mean there are I mean there are
even more stories than Star Wars has
these days, right? There are so many
stories. so many books and it's it's not
like well maybe they'll come out with
the book or a movie in a decade if we're
lucky. It's right. Sanderson's actively
writing like you know like you said
before we record he gives progress
updates every single week on the
percentage of the way he is project the
transparency is remarkable but but as a
player or as a GM um like how
and some some some GMs don't care about
this at all but for those of us who do
like how does one play in that sandbox
but not not have to worry about breaking
cannon, you know what I mean? Especially
if you don't know the world. I mean,
such a big world, but like like how does
one navigate that safely? So Sanderson
had a very very clear mandate for us on
this. Everything we as RPG team do y
must be canon. every every bit of lore
in our books, every adventure that we
write, it must fall in line with cosmir
cannon. Yep. But fans should not feel
constrained by canon if they do not want
to. Right. There is a there is a very
prominent sidebar in the GM chapter that
when you play your game, this is your
Roshar for Stormlight or your Scatch
Moon for Mist. like you can talk to your
group. Do you want to stick very very
close to the story events? In which
case, our world guide has a whole bunch
of beautifully fleshed out places that
get mentioned in the books but you never
visit. Yeah. Really cool that we work
with Dragon Steel. So there's a there's
a major solution to that question right
there. Yeah. So you can so but there you
also if you want to play through the
canon events of the books Yeah. But you
want to be the stars. Feel free to just
take away that main perspective
character and put your character in
their place. Absolutely. Or just change
events entirely.
Uh so we want the players to feel
empowered to tell their own stories,
whatever is the most satisfying way for
them. Very cool. Okay. Yeah. Thanks for
that. That's that's I mean as it should
be. I would be I I mean I think but you
know play your game but that's okay.
That's very cool. Okay. Yeah. You you
had mentioned before we clicked record
because I I had brought this up and
you're like you haven't seen the half of
it obviously, but like the artwork in
these books, the layout like we're we I
mean, you know, like I think you already
know like you our thing is increasingly
like RPGs as literature, right? And like
Brad and I, we like we like getting down
to the nitty-gritty of like the
production, the printing, the and again
just from the the the stuff you all have
put out online and like the the couple
fliproughs on YouTube that have been
coming out, like the books themselves,
the physical books, they look gorgeous.
Yeah. Um Johnny brought a print proof
of uh of one of them to Dragon Steel
Nexus uh late last year and um I could
not believe how good it felt to hold and
to look at. It is the cover is so richly
detailed
um in a way that I've never really seen
with a with a with an RPG book. But I
was telling you a little bit about this
before we said we need to stop having
this conversation so we can actually
record. I think I said that three times,
but yeah. Yes. Uh where Johnny is just
absolutely obsessed with commissioning
beautiful art. Like you can see it in
the Misborn deck building game too. Like
there is an unbelievable amount of
original art that that was commissioned
for that game. We got I think it's it's
like several hundred pieces of art that
were commissioned for Stormlight alone.
That's um and that was actually because
of another one of Brandon's mandates for
us that the uh that the Stormlight and
Misborn world guides, whatever world
guide that he produced, which fleshes
out the world, tells you about events
and different locations, interesting
characters, and has our adversaries in
it. Uh he wanted that to be accessible
to fans, not just as an RPG book. He
wanted it to be as mechanics light as
possible and just be a coffee table art
book for cosmir fans. See, that's so
neat. RPG is lit right there or as RPG
right there. Yep. And so and so that's
absolutely how the world guide can
function. Uh when we got back the first
completed layout of each of the
individual books, I can tell you that as
a fan, I was sitting there just pawing
through this PDF Yeah. for hours
for both of them. And when we got to the
sections that I was primarily
responsible for uh and I, as I said, I'm
a big invested arts guy. I have kind of
become the invested arts expert on the
core design team. that's kind of become
my role. Yeah. Uh and so I had a big
hand in the radiant paths uh which there
are 10 of in the books. Nine of them are
playable. Uh the 10th one is not
playable for very specific reasons that
I can't get into without spoilers. Uh
but and then the 10 surges that are
shared amongst the rating orders. when I
got to those and I saw the art that's
like as a fan and as a person that had
written this like I I was sobbing uh
with just with how incredible all of the
Radiant Orders looked and just fully
realized brought to life because there
are some orders that have not yet
featured terribly heavily in the
Stormlight novels. Yeah. but that we
know exist and we actually got the
pleasure of working with Dragon Steel to
flesh those out too.
And uh so my personal order is the order
of the stone wards. This is this is one
of those orders we have not seen a lot
of in the books. So to see this fully
realized art of like of the order I most
identified with in terms of the
philosophy behind their oaths like it I
got really deeply emotional seeing how
seeing this art. See that's what
literature should do right or not. See
that's that is cool. You're seeing
you're seeing you're getting a chance to
vis after reading these books and then
doing what you did where you were doing
a deep dive into these and everything
and now getting visuals
of this stuff comparing it to what the
visuals were in your head, you know, I
I've been through that with stuff and
and seeing the comparison and now in
your head now, you know, you're
automatically doing a comparison as to
what you saw, what own head
visualization was versus what's on art.
I mean, that's just and and of course,
everything like was approved and
reviewed and all that by Dragon Steel.
So, we're making sure it's matches what
Brandon was picturing. Yeah. Uh when
writing everything. Uh and yeah, it's
it's really incredible. And for
Stormlight especially, this was really
important because Stadriel, where
Mistorn takes place, like yes, there are
some fantastical elements to it, but
many aspects of it are very familiar
visually to our own world, right? Roshar
is a deeply alien world like to the
point where there's very very few
mammals in and birds in general. the
world is almost entirely crustation and
insects uh in terms of like the fauna.
Um and the flora also is deeply
different from our own because there is
a super that flows through on a
semi-regular basis that basically tears
things up unless they are so there is a
comment uh from a character that really
stuck with me. Uh so in in Brochar, most
places in Rochar, the grass is like very
hardy, grows through rock and when it
senses vibrations, it into the ground
like just ducks into the ground really
quickly so it can't be ripped out. Yeah,
but uh there's a place in the far
western reaches of Roshar uh where a
character visits a place where the grass
is like from our world and she comments
in her own kind of internal monologue of
why is this grass so lazy.
Okay. Oh, I'm sorry, Brett. Go ahead.
No, go right ahead because I'll I'll
I'll kind of wrap it because I have a
couple like Okay, so I I have to
question I I know we are an audio only
podcast, but that said, I just gota I've
got to make a comment and then I've got
a question, especially because of us
talking with Merrick not too long ago.
I'm wondering here. First of all, I'm
not a t-shirt guy, but it's a gorgeous
t-shirt you're wearing, the the Brother
Wise Games t-shirt. Um it's just it's a
really, you know, because it's it's it's
just good-looking, good printing. It it
harks to the games. That's just really
cool. It's been fun to look at the whole
time. Um, I also noticed you have a
fairly sizable tattoo. Oh, yes. Yes. Uh,
what are those? Um, so this is, uh, a
custom dice sword that I got that kind
of represents my own foundations in
Nerdom where, um, close to my elbow here
on my forearm, I have the
Planaineswalker symbol from Magic the
Gathering. Okay. Uh because Magic is
what really got me into I've been
playing it for since I was eight years
old. Wow. Um uh so uh so I have that and
then all of the and then I have a set of
like the stereotypical six d20 d12 d10
d8 d6 d4. Yeah. Uh that is it makes up
the dice sword. And then inside each of
those dice is actually one of the mana
symbols from magic. starting with green
because uh I I was a green stompy player
when I was eight years old and then
moving up in uh Woog order from there
and ending in the glass symbol that was
introduced with Rise of the Eldrazi. Um
that magic set in the Zender block. Uh
so it's just kind of like the
foundations of my own movie. That's
neat. Yeah, I love that. I just the the
brother the I love the t-shirt cuz I'm a
huge owl fan. People can't see it, but
it's it's Yeah. I mean Yeah. Just to
describe real briefly, it's the it's two
owls, but like you said, it's two owls,
but they're dressed specifically, right?
Yeah. So, the two owls in Brother Wise's
logo represent uh the Brothers Wise
themselves, Johnny O'Neal and Chris
O'Neal. Yeah. Uh and uh and so they what
the Johnny one is dressed in a mistak
uh which is an iconic item from Mistorn.
Uh we we like to call that one uh Owl
Seir. Um as as a reference to Kelsier,
who was a major character in Mistorn. Uh
and then the one over here is dressed in
uh a uniform that means quite a lot to
me as a as a diehard Stormlight fan.
It's the Bridge four uniform. And uh I
kind of get this in here for you, but
the owl actually has a tattoo on the
head here that is representative of the
main character Kaledan's uh brand that
is on his forehead. Um and so we call
that one uh Kaledan.
Nice. Nice. That's great. I think that's
great. I I think before we before we go
just with everything you got going on
with with with Cosmir and anything like
that, do you have time to do any gaming
outside of any play testing and
everything that you have that you have
going on? Um, you know. Yeah. Uh, so I
don't have a lot of time to learn or
process new systems, unfortunately. I
don't have the bandwidth for that. But I
do have two uh ongoing D&D campaigns uh
that I play in. One that I have been
running for about five years in my
Magnum Opus uh custom setting. Nice. Uh
that that I DM for and then I play in an
uh in another one that's an Everin
campaign. Okay. uh where I am playing a
bug bear sorcerer uh that has been
alone.
Uh and
uh I also am a I I play Magic. I I've
been playing Commander uh mostly over a
decade now. Uh I have a collection of
board games also can't see. Uh and yeah,
I've been I I do play a fair number of
video games as well. uh been really into
uh Pokemon Nuzlocks.
Okay. Uh for for the most part. For
people who don't know what a Nuzlocke
is, it's a it's a type of Pokemon
challenge run where you are only allowed
to catch the first Pokemon you encounter
on each route that you visit. Uh and if
that Pokemon faints, it is gone.
Uh so it is a way of adding challenge to
a Pokemon playthrough that I find very
compelling and it it brought my joy back
to playing Pokemon. Oh, that's nice.
That's cool with that. Yeah, it has been
so much fun talking to you, Ross. Thank
you so much for wasting time with us
today tonight. It is this is this is
it's just it's absolutely fascinating.
Um yeah, there's there's obviously so
much more to talk about. Um and there
will be happy to come back. Uh please,
we would love it. Plan on it. Yes. Uh
yeah, we've only we've only like just
like hit the tip of the iceberg in what
we could chat about. So, yes,
definitely. Yeah, especially I think
especially as soon as you know as as
things do start to like release and come
out and we're able to talk more about
it. That would be especially through the
literature aspect of the RPG itself
would be really cool. So I I would be
remiss if I didn't give a shout out to
the fact that the digital Stormlight
release is happening on July 23rd. Very
good. Uh so wow that's soon. I guess I
didn't realize that it was. So, as this
drops,
just a tad over three weeks away. So,
listen up people. You don't have and
then and then thankfully
uh the tariff situation worked out in a
way that we will be able to deliver to
Kickstart actors exactly when we
promised we would. Nice. Yeah. So, the
uh so the digital release was going to
be unaffected by that, but the physical
materials will begin fulfillment in late
September. And the Stormlight physical
materials will be available in Barnes &
Noble in December. Oh, that's huge. Oh,
right in time for the holiday, too.
Yeah, nationwide.
Uh, so yeah, appar Yeah, Johnny's been
saying that Barnes & Noble are very
excited. Uh,
I mean, they've clearly been upping
their RPG game, no pun intended.
Certainly around here in the Twin
Cities. Like there's RPG stuff like
pretty solid mainstream but pretty solid
at every one of their stores. So Oh wow.
And of course it'll be in friend local
game stores as well because we want you
always got to support your jeans.
Absolutely. And then Misborn starts to
come out in 2026. Yes. So uh so just to
give a little bit of an update on that
we have been in active development of
Misborn since January of last year since
before we announced it was the Cosmir
RPG. We were working on the Mistborn
books. Uh, so but that is scheduled to
come out roughly a year after. Yeah. The
Storm Night stuff comes. Neat. Really
neat. Thanks for that. Wow.
All right. Well, thank you very, very
much for spending time with us.
[Music]
Yeah, we're going to have Ross back
again. I mean, literally, um, we could
say as we as we indicated, we we've been
doing some intro outros for the evening.
Um, I literally what day it is anymore.
Yeah. The first thing that you texted
literally moments after we closed it up
was that I mean just the most wonderful
guy to have on Yeah. as a guest. I mean,
just such a joy. And what a cool success
story. I mean, it just kind of made me
This sounds really cheesy, but it kind
of made me happy just listening to his
story. No, it it it really did. I I I no
I think that's worth I think that's
worth I want to reinforce that because
you know in in a period of time where
there's just I mean so much negativity I
came out of that discussion
just a little bit not that I don't not
not that I don't come out of any podcast
feeling happy but I really came out of
that just feeling good. It was a it was
just fun. I was excited about what I'm
seeing with the RPG. It just, you know,
it and I'm excited about having Ross
back to talk more about the dice
mechanic and everything else. Oh, yeah.
Oh my god.
But, you know, as we as we head over to
Lon Cafe. Yes. Um, I could give a little
tiny update on um what I talked about in
the last one related to Midnight. Do
tell. But before that, I just wanted to
see if you had anything
um before I h before I before I did
that. Um like on my desk. Yeah, if you
had anything on your desk. I know that
you're soon very soon I I I know that
lately you have been doing writing on
your own. Um there's other stuff related
to writing where I have small
involvement that's progressing. Okay.
And but no no no no no no but but also
you are you are you are preparing for
some class work and things like that. So
your time is slowly like for
extracurricular type activities is slend
as we record. I'm assuming the next
couple weeks will be fairly busy but I'm
really looking forward to it. It'll be
great. No complaints. Um how about this?
I was going to tell you off air when we
were done this evening, but I'll just
tease this and the rest of the world and
we can talk about it later. Okay.
Uh Aaron and I have been talking
and Dr. Aaron Peterson Dr. Aaron
Peterson, never heard of him. And friend
friend of the podcast and we've
I think it's fair to say we've decided
there is a subsequent project coming.
Good for Oh, phenomenal. Now, this is
separate from the book you're working on
now, which is the sequel to your
original Leadership and Trek.
This is totally unrelated. It's still a
leadership thing. It'll still be a Tre
thing. Okay. It'll be you my friend uh
have been involved in one of the current
projects. It would be say this will be
in a sense a response to that project.
More coming later. What's on your table?
Yes.
Oh god. Okay. Well, this is gonna this
is going to be a um something something
legit and something a little humorous
and maybe a little bit insiderish so
that our listeners won't be able to
necessarily see the full gist of it, but
um we're both real cryptic tonight.
Yeah. Well, of course, it's been a long
evening. Um but a fun one. Um we'll see.
Um,
what's funny is is that um I think I
told you I've been, you know, we've I've
I've got these little mini projects that
I've been working on related to RPG
stuff and and I have been a little bit I
don't know I I don't want to use any
terminology that would um that would
that would be rude or anything like
that, but I've and not scatterbrained,
but I have been multitasking and working
little bits on multiple projects because
for me
um it's helping me kind of like
kickstart creative juices. And what I
mean by that is I still am working a
little bit on the gs thing. I still am
working a little bit um on something
else which I'll talk to you offline
about which I haven't yet talked about.
Um, and then I have this two otherp
prronged approach that I'm looking that
I would where I talked last week or two
weeks ago in our last episode about
midnight. Yep. Um, where um I've started
to look at doing um like a oneshot
adventure and maybe seeing if the
aforementioned Dr. Aaron Peterson would
want to join and maybe our friend Brian
would want to join since they're kind of
our little mini gaming crew. That's the
crew right now. Maybe maybe Justin would
want to join if he's not traveling. Um
as well. Um I know he would join as time
permits for him, but Right. Right. Um
and then along with that, um I've been
digging more into the Dungeon Crawl
Classics realm slash Shadow Dark Realm.
Yeah. Um just because I'm fascinated
specifically by those two gaming
systems. Um, Shadow or uh Dungeon Crawl
Classics has this thing called the
funnel. I mentioned this where um and
I'm not going to get this 100% accurate.
So, anyone any of the few people that
actually listen to this who have ever
played this are going to may correct are
please correct me. Um, you know, going
through the funnel as a when you start
an adventure a game, you you in effect
create three or four level zero
characters. Oh, yeah. Not. Yes. Yes. You
brought this up to me. And you go
through a level zero adventure and
whoever survives becomes your level one
character for the subsequent adventures
that go along. Um
what's funny is is that they came out
within the past few years. Goodman Games
um came out with the DCC annual. Um
originally way back when um they had
this idea of coming out with an annual
an annual in terms of like updates, you
know, and then they realized they didn't
want to do something like that because
they wanted they didn't want people to
have to continually have to update rules
and things like that. So their first
ever annual came out 15 years after the
game came out. They're decal. Yes. So,
um I started looking through that along
with um the DCC thing. Um the DCC core
rule book. Yeah. Um I'm not ready yet to
say that I would love us to do something
with Shadow Darker DCC because Traveler
is still hanging out there for us. But
apparently not Midnight. Yeah. Well,
Midnight's ahead of the game just
because and and who knows if we would
ever do something beyond the oneshot. Um
other than keeping it on our shelf as a
periodic type of thing. Yeah. Yeah. Um
but it's just to get the creative juices
flowing again. Absolutely. That outside
of sci-fi for us. Yes. Um but I just I
the idea of playing something that is
reminiscent of what it was like for me
playing as a fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh grader. Um that's cool. And
remember what it was like. Um, even
GMing it, um, fascinates me and trying
to recreate that for
you guys, um, is still on my mind. And,
um,
um, even I even got some help from, um,
some people relatively close to me in
terms of, um, like potential NPCs. Mhm.
Um they gave me an idea for like and
I'll give you I'll give you just one
example. I don't know where this one
might come up, but like for example, if
you're you know, you might be traversing
um like a bridge and you might end up um
being stopped by like the troll of over
verbose over verboseness. Yes, I'm
familiar with that troll.
And um they might attack you if you
don't answer certain quizzes or
questions correctly.
Yes, he's showing a picture of me that
my daughter drew on who's after junior
in high school, but she was Yeah, I fell
asleep on the couch and Yes. the troll
of overt loquaciousness. Yeah, I was I
was I was sent this by your wife. Yes.
And it's great having one of those.
Yeah. And I was told that um I was told
that um feel free to share. No thanks.
Okay. Stay on target. Stay on target.
Yeah. I And I have not done so even
though that was given to me now. Yes. Um
I just wanted you to be aware that was
given to me now four week three weeks
ago. Awesome. And I have not shared it.
So but I will be using it at some point
in a game. Um lovely. Well, on that
note, so yes, I figured that would be a
good ending of the evening. Yes. Thank
you. It's uh Thanks, folks. We'll be
here all night. Um uh so two things
moving forward everybody. Uh like like
Brad said, uh before I stopped
listening, he uh uh we just with our
with our mutual schedules and with it
being the troll.
Oh boy. Yeah, we're we're switching to
an all all access 247 podcast to Brad
quietly singing and sometimes
whimpering. Okay, so two weeks from now,
we're not going to have a new episode.
We're going to give ourselves a little
breathing room. So, thanks for um
indulging that. We will, however, have a
rerun of uh of a past guest. Um we're
not going to tell you whom. We're just
you're just going to have to come back
two weeks from now and find out. Now, 4
weeks from now, at the end of July, when
Brad and I are back real time, not
really cuz obviously, you know, we're
not actually talking to you at the
moment. This is recorded. Okay. So, uh
that's going to be our 150th episode,
which is sort of cool. And I think it's
fair to say, Brad, mind-boggling to the
two of us.
How many episodes did you actually think
we would record before it kind of kind
of just it kind of just ended? How
hurtful do you want me to be? I want you
to be completely transparent. When we
actually this is this is pretty funny.
When we I don't I don't know if I've
ever told you this. When we started
right more than four years ago when we
started we had we planned we you've
already you've already said this so it's
not like I'm not aware. Yeah. uh you and
I what we spent honestly we spent about
six months prepping and planning uh
planning and prepping and then and it
was monthly and we didn't know we were
going to end up doing interviews and
talking to so many fascinating wonderful
people had no idea. Oh wait this is
completely different than what we
anticipated and and I think it's fair to
say and I know we're going to say this
again for 150 this continues to be one
of my major joys today. I just
absolutely love doing this and love
doing this with you. That said, my
estimate
was six. Five to six. Okay. I I remember
that. Y max. Yep, you got it. I remember
saying to Amy, Brad's totally going to
flake out, but we'll we'll give it a
shot. And and who who knew? And and and
and like, you know, everybody I'll again
giving you some inside trading
information here. I tend to be the one
who keeps us like on schedule and on
track planning wise like right which is
absolutely which is funny cuz I do all
of the project management for the for
the podcast 100%. But you actually are
trained in doing it. I've just been
winging it. But
anytime and I' I and I I never ever
really say anything, but like any time
where I think, well, you know, maybe
maybe we're nearing the end or maybe we
need a refresh or whatever countless
times over the past four years, it's
been you who has been, hey, I've been
thinking and what do you think? Right?
Like like it's been you who's been on
top of we need to do X, Y, or Z. Which
is kind of funny cuz it's kind of
reverse roles in real life. Like usually
I'm the one who's like, "Oh, squirrel,
let's talk about something different."
And you're like, "Here's how to do it in
real life." And that's just how we
Sorry, that's funny. We'll talk about
this at 150, but I don't see I see
that's so funny. I don't see you as a
squirrel. I think we're both attuned and
then we'll I'll leave it. We're both
attuned where just when we feel like
things might just get a little bit stale
and we need to tweak something and it
might not even be something people see.
Um it's invariably you, you know, we
will invariably. Yeah. Yeah. But but it
it will be something where we're you're
like, you know what? Yeah. And and it's
something that's it's something usually
it's something that
if it hasn't been in mind of yours, it's
about ready to I think you're giving me
too much credit with that. But we'll
talk we'll talk about that next. We'll
talk about that for 150. Yeah. All
right. So with that everybody, uh be
well, stay well. will sort of see you in
2 weeks and we will be back full force
in 4 weeks for episode 150.
145 more than we expected.
[Music]
