[Music]
Welcome to Dyson Mind, a podcast hosted
by Brad Brown and Jason Kaufman to
explore the intersection of life, games,
science, science, music, philosophy, and
creativity through interviews with
leading creatives. All are welcome in
this space.
[Music]
We've had an opportunity to speak to
obviously many writers and RPG writers
who have written
for multiple
um what's
franchises all over the place. Yeah. And
and tonight is is no exception. Al
although tonight's guest is writing for
one of the very newest RPGs out there
that's not even out yet. That's what and
that that is what is going to make this
one a little unique. And um not only
that, we come to find out that um you
know, we thought this would be our first
time meeting him. For me, it was not.
That that was pretty funny. Yeah. And so
you'll hear that more in this in the in
the conversation we're going to have
with with Merrick Moore here shortly.
Mhm. But
um many thanks to Al Bader for putting
us in touch with Merrick because it was
a it's it's going to be a great
conversation
um talking about not only
Trek and you know modern age green
roine. I mean so many things he's he's
touched a lot of the a lot of our
favorite lines at this point. Oh yeah.
Yeah. I mean he literally you draw a
line through them. Yeah. Yeah.
literally. And he is the book lead now
for the upand cominging Cosmir, which
which is of course what what made us
especially want to reach out to Merrick
because you and I we've been talking
about Cosmir and Brandon Sanderson
novels for a while on the podcast now.
Yeah. How'd you like my my emails and
everything this weekend? I got I got a
little bit down the rabbit hole with in
the Sanderson verse with you. Uh well,
thank you because with you using good
prompt engineering with uh what do you
use? Gemini. Yeah, I was using Gemini to
kind of dig into the cosmir. Yeah. Now I
don't have to read any of the sequels
because I now have read the the tight
synopsis of of each one. Um but but
seriously, we you and I both have been
really intrigued by the upandcoming
cosmir game line. this this quote living
RPG which really does attract me. Um,
and we do talk about this in the
interview, but I I think before we get
there, it's worth talking just the two
of us for a sec. Uh, you and I, I guess
a little bit online, but certainly
offline after this past winter break
when I came back from our trip and and
told you, "Hey, I read this book called
Mistbornne." And apparently it's a very
well-known author that we don't know
about. And it was really interesting
because it's hard magic. So, think hard
sci-fi, but it's magic. It's an almost
scientific approach to magic. And I have
to say, it's very compelling. I had to
I'll be I'll be very transparent. This
idea of hard magic, you talked about it
multiple times. We've talked about it, I
think, briefly in past episodes with
folks. Um, it was a concept that eluded
me a bit. So, that was one of the things
I researched this weekend. I wanted to
get kind of a better understanding of
what it was. And the the further down
the rabbit hole I went on it, the more I
was fascinated by it, um, this idea and
and I hate to say it, the more I would
love to integrate that into
um, Star Trek. No, I'm I'm kidding.
Yeah, but no, but into into like the
Gersps verse I'm building. Just the idea
if I were to if I were to introduce
Magic because let's be honest, I mean,
you know, we tend to play more sci-fi
than anything.
Um, so I haven't we haven't neither of
us have done much in the way of GMing,
DMing Magic. Um not beyond like like
jamming for like level one casters.
Yeah. Yeah. Right. Where it's basically
can trips and magic missiles but you
know or and and the close and and and
obviously psionics type of stuff is
interest us and that's kind of like it's
but that's just adjacent a little bit.
Yeah. It's got a magic gloss over it but
it's still not magic. This is different
though. this is different and and I just
the idea behind it and what ultimately
happened is is you know if I could mindm
map what my what my research spikes were
this weekend in terms of the directions
I was going if you could Oh, you should
probably just
mute. No, I'm kidding. Go. Oh, okay. I
Sorry. The look on your face like, oh
no, what happened? Well, yeah, I was I
was like I didn't do anything, did I?
Priceless. Um, no that this but it would
it would show I I went far down this
idea of hard magic. Um, yeah, because
because I it's it's a really interesting
and then we got to go to the interview,
but I this will be this will be a topic
we could bring up again. I'm sure it
will be. I think I think the idea of
hard magic could be something that we
could get behind in terms of utilizing
magic in in game in places where where
we wouldn't otherwise. Yes. Yeah. Where
we wouldn't be comfortable uh magicking
as it were. Just just for clarification
we're you know we are assuming
everyone's familiar with this concept
but of course we weren't. But but hard
magic, think of magic akin to hard
science fiction where it's science
fiction, it's future looking but future
oriented but it tends to stay close to
reality. There has to be a logic. Think
like um think Alistair Reynolds, right?
Versus like Peter Hamilton. And so hard
magic is in our minds the same kind of
thing where the magic it's not
willy-nilly. It's not, you know, I cast
and everyone goes up in flames. It could
be, but there has to be an internal
logic to the
mechanism. And that's where that's where
the
cosmir gameverse really stands out. And
and I will be I will be very interested.
We we talked a little bit with him about
about the dice mechanic. We didn't get
into that. That wasn't the point of the
convo. and the fact that there was a
public beta out for it for a while. I
will be interested in I'm gonna have I
didn't do this this weekend in starting
to look online and seeing the
discussions the YouTube videos of people
um who are utilizing that content and
seeing their thoughts on it. Um really
plays out really based on what Merrick
will tell us shortly. Uh really curious
to see that dice mechanic in action.
Yes, absolutely.
Yeah, Merrick Maher is a digital
marketing manager at an international
engineering company, a Mchuan University
graduate from the sadly defunct
professional writing program, a father
of four, and a constant storyteller and
worldbuilder. He recently became the
book lead on Cosmir RPG's Misborn World
[Music]
Guide. So, Merrick, thanks for joining
us. It's funny, right before we hit
record, we realized that we had actually
been on a um an episode with Green Ronin
before um old Thursday Age. Yeah,
Thursday Age. Yes, we did that when we
were doing a sess a session zero
character creation for Fantasy H2 right
early in early in its release if I
remember correctly. Yeah, we just sent
the PDFs at that point. No hard covers
yet. We were just Yeah. Yeah. Just
showcasing the character creation. Yeah.
And that and that and I still I still
believe that, you know, Jason and I, no
disrespect to other high fantasy gaming
systems out there. There's a lot of
great ones out there, but we've already
talked about the fact that when when we
have time to play High Fantasy again,
it's it's going to be FA2 just because
um we love the 3d6 dice mechanic. Oh,
yeah. Um Yeah. You know, we love it. And
you and you we got so much to talk
about, but it's just since I brought it
up um you do a live play, right? Yeah.
So, I'm currently doing something called
Starfall Detective Agency. And so it is
our diesel punk uh noir fantasy age
game. So it's set in a world called New
Talrios which I made up. Uh we run it
second Mondays on Moonbeam.
Okay. And then we publish the episodes
on our YouTube on uh Skyhammer Press.
And so we're yeah we're uh it's first
season like we this group previously did
a uh a threeseason show of uh the
expanse RPG called Hellbreakers. Mhm.
And so we did that for two years. And uh
so now we're doing some fantasy age
because we wanted to do a little bit
more high fantasy. But I made it weird
because I went diesel bunk diesel punk
floating DRA cities. Let's do that
instead. Uh, so they've uh they've done
some, you know, woman comes in, her her
husband's missing, he got a new job, and
she's she hasn't heard from him in a
couple of days, so they go and
investigate, and now they're they're
tearing off into into the story. It's a
lot of fun. It's very cool. Jason, you
almost went crosseyed when he went. I'm
just I was just I was letting the
imagery come. I was I was Yeah, I was It
took me a moment to just kind of grock
each of the pieces and get them in line.
There's a bunch of Yeah. I Yeah. Wow.
Okay. So, I don't even know where to go
with that. There's so many places we
want to go. So, we I mean, obviously, we
we asked you if you would chat with us.
At least this is where we can start.
There's so much more. Well, before we
do, just just what we'll we'll post the
links to those in the show. Oh, yeah.
Oh, thank you. Absolutely. Yeah. Thanks,
R. Yeah. We you have written I mean not
to mention live plane you've written for
a bunch of lines now. Yes.
Um the first one that I got to freelance
for was the expanse. Mh. Uh so with
Green Ronin. Um had a lot of fun with
that. And then from there I went to
Actton Cthulhu. Did a whole bunch of
adventures with them. Uh some work on
some of their hard covers. uh got my own
uh soft cover book uh Viva Resistance
was all mine. I wrote 100% of that book
uh which was really cool. Such an
opportunity. Yeah. Uh after that I got
some Star Trek work. I did uh Star Trek
Adventures um again obviously for
Medifius
and done some D&D stuff. But just around
the uh the Star Trek time, I also got
involved with what was at that point the
Stormlight RPG, right? And uh they
brought me in to write one adventure and
a year later I am leading one of the
books. So outstanding. It's been pretty
cool. It's been an amazing year, year
and a half.
See, it's it's times like this where I
do wish our audience could see the video
cuz like Merrick's grin like just this
wonderful smile like living the dream
here, right? So, okay. So, may maybe
let's just start there and we can kind
of go backwards. So, full disclosure,
like Brad, and I think I can speak for
both of us, cuz like you and I have been
talking about this, Brad, Brad and I
came on to Sanderson's novels like like
2 minutes ago, like for PE for guys who
are like PE, you know, for people who
are are deep into sci-fi and also some
fantasy and and it's not like there are
only one or two books he's ever written,
right? Yeah. I I mean his books tend to
be like whole series for other people in
terms of length and and it was only over
this past winter break that I read my
first novel by him and so I didn't know
did you start Misborn. Misborn. Okay. Uh
yeah, Misborn. I had been reading up a
lot um uh uh Michael Dismuk had been
recommending him his videos for for you
know his YouTube tutorials. Yeah. And I
started listening to those and thinking,
okay, this is really interesting and
it's got to be pretty creative. And then
I I asked around and got some
recommendations and I thought, okay,
Misborn is like a normal length novel
and it's one of the early ones and it's,
you know, very highly spoken of. And so
I thought, okay, that would be a good
one to see if I like it. And I really
got a kick out of it. Like it was really
creative and and you want to you want to
hear a really, you know, uh, like tidbit
about Misborn? uh December of 2024,
Misborn actually hit a bestseller list
for the first time in its 10 years that
it's been published. Yeah, it hit a
bestseller list because Book Talk has
just been going like wild over Misborn.
And so the sales have just increased and
it actually hit a bestseller list like a
decade after publishing, which is wild.
Darn. I mean, but it does go to show
that you can't you can't predict things
with books. I mean, it's kind of like
games, too. Like, you you really don't
know what's really going to hit and if
it does, when it's going to hit. Well,
and
Misborn, it's one of those stories that
feels relevant, uh, timelessly relevant,
but particularly relevant right now
because it's a story about a bunch of
people going counterculture and
destroying an evil empire. like it's how
Star Wars continues to be relevant and
the idea that you know what autocratic
fascist governments are around and
people got to do stuff about them it
there's a cathartic feeling to the
Misborn series for me that way. Yeah. We
don't know what I don't know why which I
don't know I don't
Yeah have to think about that. So So
Brad you got into but you you started up
with Sanderson's novels around the same
time but you you were I was I was I was
later embarrassingly so. I didn't I
hadn't heard about them until you you
and Michael had started talking about
them and and ultimately I had gifted
myself
the Misborn series. You know, you could
buy this the the trade paperback series.
Yeah. Um, and I wouldn't I had a I had a
milestone professional milestone that I
was achie I was working to attain and I
was going to allow myself I couldn't I
couldn't open the cellophane on that
pack of books and start reading it until
I tamed it which I did. So I'm in the
midst Congratulations. Yes. So I'm in
the midst of doing now. And so when when
we saw that there was an RP and I don't
even remember how I came across that
when we saw that there was an RPG. You
saw it first. Yeah. I it was like, "Oh,
wait, that's fascinating because it's
one of the more creative worlds we'd
encountered." And then it's like, "Wait
a minute. I know that guy's name. Why do
I know that guy's name?" It's like, "Cuz
he's written a bunch of STA, right?" And
and I'm like, "Oh." And so, so maybe we
could start there. How did I mean you
were already it seems quite prolific in
the industry by the time they they
called you for cosmir but like I mean
what can you tell us how did that like
how did that happen and what's that been
like? Oh that was honestly the wildest
like three four days of my freelancing
career because I'm a part-time
freelancer. I have a full-time day job
that I work at um as a digital marketing
matter. I'm a writer and an editor in my
day job. Nice. And
um basically what happened was I had
spent the summer pitching what I thought
was going to be my first uh Star Trek
Adventures product. Like I had spoken
with Jim uh quite a bit and uh Jim
Johnson. Yep. We've heard of him.
Obviously. I was like for the listeners.
Yeah, you're right. They've probably
heard of him too at this point. Yeah, we
we've done Yeah. our show. Our show
people probably know who he is, so
you're good. Yeah. So, I I had been
talking with Jim for quite a while
because uh he was a very nice supporter
of our streaming stuff. We've done a
couple of Star Trek Adventures streams
and he knew I was interested in writing
for Star Trek Adventures. Um and I had
an idea after watching an episode of
Strange New Worlds and I was like, "Hey,
I'd love to do this." And he said, "I'm
taking pitches in October." Like, yeah,
here's some reading material. will write
something up and send it to me in
October. And great, great. Like my brain
is in this all summer. Um, I got my
pitch together. I sent it to him. And
while I was waiting for him to get back
to me, uh, I saw a tweet about uh the co
well the Stormlight RPG looking for
writers. Uh, and this was, um, the
project manager at the time. Uh, and I
just, you know, messaged him, just
direct messaged and said, "Hey, you
don't know me. Um, I would love to write
for the stuff. Like, here's my
portfolio." And I gave my website. He's
like, "Oh, great. Thank you for sending
it in. Like, I'll take a look." And then
like the next day, he messaged me back
and he was like, "This is really good.
Can you send a writing sample, please?"
Like, "Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah. Here's a
PDF of one of my adventures. Yeah. And
then that was like a Monday. Tuesday
morning, Jim gets back to me and he
says, "Um, I love your idea. This is
going to be a briefs package. Um, we're
going to we're going to get you to do
that." Nice. But do you have capacity to
do a really quick adventure right now
for the starter set because we're
looking for a third adventure writer.
And so he brought me on with Michael
Dism and Al Spader. Yeah. to write up
one of the adventures on the starter
set. Yeah. I'm like, "Yeah, I'd love to
do that. That sounds great."
And then while I was like riding this
high of I'm a Star Trek writer now. I've
got two projects coming. Uh Anthony
Joyce Rivera comes back to me and he
says, "Hey, the uh the creative director
uh really loved it and he wants to have
a meeting with you." Wow. Can you uh are
you free this week?
Yep. And I was like, uh, yeah, cool,
cool, cool, cool, sure. Um, so then
Thursday that week, I met with uh Johnny
O'Neal from Brotherwise and like I had
signed all the NDAs going into the
meeting and he's like, "We want to hire
you on for one adventure and here's the
big thing. It's not the Stormlight RPG,
it's the Cosmir RPG." And I'm like,
cool. And he just gave me a presentation
of like all this art and plans. It was
incredible. And I so I spent October and
November like writing Star Trek and
Stormlight simultaneously. Oh man.
And I and I just like got those out
really quick. And then uh Star Trek went
and did its thing. And then I just kind
of kept taking Stormlight work for the
next couple of months up until uh I did
a couple of things in Stonewalkers,
which is the adventure path for uh the
Stormlight RPG. Oh, cool. I did I did
chapter 3 and I did chapter six and I
helped with revisions and things like
that. Uh did some work on the world
guide. That looks really cool. Oh, it's
it's gorgeous. Um, what became like the
really big thing for me was in the
spring of last year, they said, "Okay,
we're starting work on our Misborn world
guide. Merrick, we'd like you to come in
and write some of the stuff on it."
Yeah. Um, how would you like to write
all of our points of interest
chapter? So, I got that entire chapter
to myself. Wow. And started writing
that. Um, we wrote it in a couple of
phases, so I was writing it all over the
summer. And then uh obviously by August
we we launched the Kickstarter, revealed
that it was the Cosmir RPG, not just the
Stormlight one. It's this big multiworld
uh thing that we are taking on and I
started being able to tell people like,
"Yeah, I'm working on Misborn stuff."
And then uh by December of 2024, uh the
Misborn World Guide book lead uh was
stepping into a different position.
She's taking on more design focused
stuff and they're like, "Merrick, do you
wanna you want to book lead this?" So,
all of the um all of the writers and
there were like uh nine different
contributors on the book at that point
um had all handed in their stuff and
then I was co-book leading it with
Lithia uh for January and then I took
over, you know, halfway through February
and I've been running it and putting it
together for the last couple of weeks.
Wow. So, well done. Yeah, that's that's
not dull. That is It's incredible. It's
so exciting. And like, so you're you're
you're both starting in Misbornne right
now. Like, how far are you in the books?
Oh, literally. I've read Misbornne.
Literally. Yeah, literally read Misborn.
That's that's all it and and I haven't
Yeah, I have like I just haven't gotten
to Stormlight yet. There it's It's a bit
of a lift. It's a little intimid
intimidating. It's like in terms of like
uh like a commitment. It's like okay,
you know, like like I felt like I could
walk away having read Misport and I'm
like I'm good right now.
But to to commit it's like I Yeah, it's
getting We'll see what happens over the
summer when I have the time to Jason is
not traditionally a fiction reader. So
to get him to read fiction, if it's
fiction, it's probably sci-fi. And if
it's sci-fi, it's it it's you know,
Asimov doesn't write much anymore. Uh
Adams doesn't write much anymore. Very
disappointing. But like so when I heard
that he read when I heard that he read
Sanderson, once I realized who it was, I
was shocked because it was just not in
his realm normally. And that's that's
one of the things that really like
psyched me up about Misborn. Like when I
got into Sanderson, um basically what
had happened and it seems to be a
pattern with me. If somebody tells me
three times to read something like and
it doesn't need to be the same person.
If I've heard from three different
places, this is good, I just buy it. And
so like I did that with the Misborn
books. I just bought the trilogy and I'm
like fine, I'll read them. Okay.
and the the
like opening from Sanderson talking
about how his vision for it was three
separate trilogies over different time
skips sold me immediately because one
day we're going to get Misborn in space
and wait like seriously.
Okay, so this is his plan. So Misborn,
the first trilogy is set in the time
that you are with, right? Uh, era 2
takes place a couple hundred years
later. Time skip. Era 3, which he's
working on right now and it's going to
the first book's coming out 2027ish,
um, is going to be roughly like 1980s
analog.
Yeah. And
then, uh, era 4 to be space age and the
cosmic. Okay, first of all, very cool.
You had me at space age. Second, uh the
Cosmo RPG presumably I mean from what's
been written announced, it's going to
whatever it means keep pace with these
cuz it's so what? Absolutely. Excuse me.
What attracted me? Well, other than the
premise, other than like the little bit
of artwork they shared, I mean it it
does look gorgeous. It's the artists
that they have brought in are
spectacular. It really looks like that.
But also the notion of a living RPG
that's a that's like a new thing like
right right like it's not just go I mean
it is it's like planning that from the
beginning of of he's going to keep
writing and consequently the RPG in
whatever way in whatever methods is
going to keep pace and keep expanding
and that's very provocative. It's also
fully canon which is the wildest part.
So, we have a Yeah, we have a really
close relationship with Dragon Steel,
which is Brandon Sanderson's publishing
company, where all of the stuff that we
write goes to them for IP approval. And
we're able
to like reveal stuff that haven't that
hasn't been revealed in the books. And
when something is printed in our books,
it's canon for his novels going forward
as well. So, like the events Yeah. like
the like say the locations that we
publish in the Stormlight World Guide,
they could be referenced in further
Stormlight books. Same thing with
Misborn books. So So like if you I mean
it's cool cuz like like if it is cuz
like if you
if you create something Yeah. It could
show up in a future novel like that was
you. Exactly. And I mean like
I was very fortunate to be tapped for a
lot of the stuff that is the new lore.
Mhm. So our sort of like book structure
for a world guide. It's it's meant to be
like a coffee table book. Like someone
who's never going to play the RPG should
also have a really fun time flipping
through this book, looking at the art
and learning about a world for for a
novel series that they love.
And so like our early chapters are very
much um you know here's an overview of
the world. Here are the uh the
countries, the nations, the the people,
the various regions. Um we have a
cosmology and religion. So like we're
talking about actually um
like the high concept stuff that uh you
you get into the cosmir later. Yeah.
Um there's there's big history sections
as well. Nice. Uh there's uh character
sections um highlighting like named
characters from the novels. Y and then
then you get into the points of interest
chapters which is what I got to focus
on. Yeah. At first and it's like pick a
spot. So for example, having read the
first Misborn, one of them is Luth. Mhm.
It's it's the city and like we we hit
sort of the high notes that you know
from the books and fill in a lot of the
gaps as well to create spaces for
players and GMs to create their own
campaigns and so on. If you know and of
course Brandon's not going back and and
writing more Arrow One stuff, but if he
did, uh the stuff there could exist
because it does now. It does exist in
there.
And putting that together
is very exciting and very cool and like
quite a process cuz we have
um obviously all the writers are are
quite knowledgeable. Yeah. And we also
have this group um of people called the
world singers. They are like volunteer
cosmir scholars. like they they do
podcasts, they run websites, they know
all of the stuff and they come in and
they lure check us as well. Before we go
to Dragon Steel and say like, "Hey,
here's the thing." Yeah. Yeah. Nice
crowd sourcing. That's pretty That's
That's really cool. So yeah, they're
well do you do you have is there
communication
um
between the group your group that's
working on the RPG and Sanderson himself
at all with any of it or Yeah. Um
definitely it's mostly through Johnny
who's our creative director. Okay. And
uh and some other people like Lydia who
is the um who was the Misborn World Guy
book lead. She was the Stormlight World
Guide Booker. She's the lead writer on
the project. Yeah. Uh she also lives in
Utah and has gone and like done meetings
and so on there. I live up in Canada. I
don't fly down to Utah to meet Brandon
directly. Unfortunately,
you might want to stay in Canada these
days. Unfortunat, you know. Yeah.
Probably. We love, by the way, by the
way, we love Canada. We love We love
Canada. Don't listen to what other
people what you might see on the news.
We love Canada. Merrick, where are you
in Canada? I'm in Edmonton, Alberta. Oh,
so cool. Okay. I uh I've I'm up in St.
Paul. Well, sorry. I'm down in St. Paul.
Um but that's that's very cool. I
haven't been to No, I haven't been to
Alberta yet. That's that's on the list.
I've been lots of other places in
Canada, but Alberta's good. Like, we've
got a lot of lakes. We've got mountains.
I like BC better. Sure. Um like
politically and visually. BC's better.
Costwise, BC's worse. Yes. Um, but I
mean, I I was born and raised here in
Alberta. I lived in BC for a little bit.
Came back here with family, you know,
those sorts of things. I have kids. I
needed to be by their by my parents for
additional help. I mean, it makes a
difference. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, hugely.
Absolutely. No, we I mean, yeah, we know
that's like So, I'm curious. So, as a
book lead, like we we we love to talk
about process and like the back end of
things of not just the products, but
like I'm going to use the term Jason.
Just go for it. Get it out of your face.
I'm going to use the phrase. I'm going
to use the phrase. We The term that
Jason hates, I don't like it either. The
sausage making. Yes, of course. There is
a lot of you know of of the behind the
scenes
grinding to making a but but how you but
you know that that stuff that that t you
know the writing is the is the sometimes
like the the cool and sexy stuff that
people talk about but there's but you
know there's so much more yeah there's
so much more to it and as someone who's
you know for me especially with someone
who's not tradition really a writer I'm
fascinated by the work that goes into
it, not just you sitting there and
writing itself, that to me is also
fascinating, but the whole process
behind it. So like, so being a book lead
on a cosmir book, like what's that like?
What's that look like? What are the
things you're doing? How do you balance
that? And sounds like you have a life
outside of this. So like how does that
all work? Um, so I have my day job that
I do. I then uh take a little break,
spend some time with the kids, have
dinner, and then spend a couple of hours
generally every night uh going through
documents and like having a manuscript,
having two or three spreadsheets, having
um reference physical books. Uh we have
a database of all of the uh all of the
Cosmir books like just in that so you
can word search through them.
Um, and then,
uh, Discord as well, just being like we
have a Discord server where we can ping
all of the other people.
Um,
it's it's definitely
like meet with the other leads. Yeah.
and talk through ideas, translate those
out to the freelancers and the
contributors, get them to work, they
send in stuff, put it all back together,
and just keep getting ready and hitting
the next deadline. Um,
so we had a two-month revision period.
So, we had everybody got their stuff in
end of December. Uh, Lydia and I spent
four to six weeks just going through it
and making a plan like how do we turn
these nine people's contributions into
one book. Yeah. Literally just making a
plan for each individual person and life
happens. Right. Right. Like some people
have left the project, some people have
taken different roles in the project,
some people are just unavailable to come
back and work on it for various reasons
in life. So when that crops up, you got
to go, okay, what's our second plan? Who
takes this part? Who works on it? yada
yada yada. And
so we sent that all out and then the
writers had two months. They had
February and March to uh do all of the
things that we asked them to do to bring
it all kind of together.
And I got that all back end of March. Uh
and I've just been basically reading
through it and clicking off a checklist
being like, was this done? Was this
done? Was this done? Mhm. Um, and then
in two two and a half weeks now, it's
going to go to uh Laura, who's our lead
editor on the project. Incredible. Like
so prolific in the industry. She has
edited most of the like big D&D books
out there and most of the other RPG
books out there. Um, and so she's going
to do a a massive developmental edit on
it, and I'll work with her. Like, she'll
go through with fresh eyes and
all of her expertise and experience and
all of the knowledge that she's gained
from doing that to the handbook, which
is what she's currently working. Okay?
And then we we combine it and make it
one
big meatball of a single game system
rather than nine writers all had cool
ideas in a row. So,
It's a thing and and I love doing it and
it is I worked early in my career in
print production and and
so I've done it a bunch and so it's nice
to do it again. Can I can I I want to
digress here just because just by what
you said I I'm going to this is what we
were talking about I think before we hit
record about about taking right turns
and everything
going way back. How how did you get
yourself involved
in first of all in gaming you know a lot
and it's probably a similar story to a
lot of to all of us but into gaming and
then into like
writing about and writing in gaming as
well. So it's kind of like a two pro two
twoprong question really. Yeah
absolutely. Um, so I mean similar story
to a lot of people like I loved gaming,
played board games, played video games,
played like Balders's Gate and
Neverwinter Nights and those sorts of
things. Um, but I didn't touch uh pen
and paper RPG till university when I saw
some friends holding the 3.5
uh players handbook and I was like what
what is that? What? Tell me more. And
then just like sucked in completely.
Um but I actually I was in university
for computing science. Did three
semesters of that. Okay. Did not like uh
left um did random jobs until I saved up
some money and opened a board game store
and sold games for about a year and a
half and then lost a lot of money and
went got to close this. uh what am I
going to do with my life? And uh my
wonderful wife, who was my fiance at the
time, uh said, "Hey, Mchuan has a a
professional writing program. Why don't
you go check that
out?" So, a four-year program. Yeah. And
I did that in two and a half years
because I was like, I don't want to be
back in school. I'm just going to take
maximum course load all the time and
crush through this.
Uh,
and after
my I think yeah, like in the summer
after my second year going into what was
going to be my final year, I got a job
as a production assistant uh doing print
publications for the government of
Alberta.
And so I was doing a lot of line editing
and production editing and like I was
doing press checks and learning those
skills and and working with um like
contract designers and stuff and I got
to book lead two small books there like
because I worked there for three or four
years.
Um then got a job working for an
engineering company and I've been there
for 10 years now. Uh I manage a team of
three writers. Yes. And so just like a
lot of that. So do do you do a lot of
technical writing?
Yeah. Yeah. More more storytelling of
technical writing. Um I don't have to do
like this is how the engineering is
done. I do. We did cool engineering. You
should hire us kind of work. Okay. Yeah.
Like RFP type of stuff and no uh no uh
web stuff. Okay. Oh, cool. Marketing
copy. Yeah. Okay. Awesome. Yeah. And
then uh although I have written RFPs
back at the government of Alberta. Yeah.
But uh Yeah. And then getting into
writing for TTRPG. Like I said, uh the
first one was with Green Ronin and The
Expanse. And what actually happened was,
like I said, I lived on Vancouver Island
in BC for two years. Gorgeous,
gorgeous place. Wonderful place. And
I had to build a whole new community out
there, like playing card games and
running TTRPGs, but I was really missing
like my groups back in Edmonton.
And so when we moved back to Edmonton, I
unveiled a master plan to my friends. I
said, "Look, I have a list of 12 games
that I want to
play. I'm going to run one a month for
the next year." Interesting. So, sign up
for the ones that you're interested in.
Yes. And I was like, it's going to be on
a Saturday. It's going to be a potluck.
We start at three o'clock in the
afternoon. Characters are already made.
We're gonna do a oneshot in this game,
one a month. I went to do the very first
one and I was like, you know what? I'm
really liking this whole Critical Role
thing right now. So, let me just put a
mic out on the table and let's record
this. Maybe we'll turn it into a
podcast. And I ended up doing five
seasons of something called Massive
Damage Adventures. Yes. Which was uh one
shots. We did 12 episodes a season
except I started reviewing games and
started doing a review game every month
as well. So we were doing like 24
episodes a season. Yeah.
And then I started interviewing people.
So, I interviewed uh like the creator of
Fragged Empire and um and I brought on
uh the Story Brewers um the ones who do
Good Society and uh Fight with Spirit
and um one of the people I brought on
was Ian Lumpkkey doing The Expanse. Mhm.
Reached out to him on Twitter, got him
on to the podcast, just talked to him
about the game, and during the
pre-post podcast conversation, he was
like, "Yeah, I'm always looking for new
writers." And I'm like, "I'm a writer.
Like, I'd love to write something for
The Expanse." And it just continued on.
That's so cool. Yeah.
Man. Oh, man. when you one when you
write you know what's kind of your you
know again this hyper nerdy question I
kind of ask people this you know what's
your what's kind of your ecosystem for
writing you know do you have you know
you know you know PC Mac you know are
you like Jim Johnson you're just laying
it out on line of type I mean what's
your what's your uh sorry Jim so um I
have I have a big set up right here.
I've got four screens. Um got I've
always got a cup of tea. Um ah
must have my tea. Yes. Um and many many
Spotify playlists. Yeah. Uh to like get
me in the particular mood of whatever
I'm writing, like action sequences or
Misborn has its own one. Um, when I'm
doing editing, I have one that's
literally just every song of Billy
Talent in order because
the music just gets in my head and lets
me really really focus.
Yeah. So, Jason is going to be looking
that up later. I think he by the look of
his eye. So, okay. So, like I can see
with the editing and with the lead stuff
like having the multiple monitors, but
even when you're writing you're
utilizing four monitors. Yeah. Yeah.
Generally. Okay. Because I've got like
I've got notes in one note. Okay. I've
got physical notes on a notepad. Yep.
I've got, you know, Spotify going. I've
got reference materials going. Yeah. Um
I've got Discord up. Yeah. Just for the
record, so you know, after we hang up
and and like we wander away from this
chat, rest assured, Brad and I will be
talking about exactly this for the next
three days based on our previous
conversations of workflow.
I I just love that because I've because
I I'm like a, you know, I look at
different productivity methods and not
because one's good or one's bad. It's
just it's fascinating to me as someone
who has tried different methodologies
and things like that for for writing and
management and and some work for me,
some don't. I I run with three screens.
Um because I you know Jason Jason has a
different methodology than mine. I have
my I have my one laptop screen. Yeah.
And that's okay. There's nothing I'm not
It's just and it's just funny how it's
how we we operate differently. You know,
I have to use a task management system
and I have to look at it from a canban
perspective and I have you know there's
things that I need to do to be
functional and for some it looks like
chaos for me it looks it looks like
order you know. Yeah. So absolutely I
I've got it just Oh go ahead. My process
definitely when I'm writing something
I'm writing something for
um uh for fantasy age right now
actually. Nice. Uh, and like I'll have a
OneNote document that, you know, I can
access from my computer, I can access
from my phone. Anytime I have an idea or
like some free time where I want to work
on something, I'm just throwing stuff
into a big soup document there. Nice.
Yeah. And then I put it into a a laid
out outline. And it's a lot of my
outlines are like almost first drafts.
like I've put all of the ideas in and
then when I'm actually doing the first
draft, I'm really just prettying up the
words I've already put there.
Yeah. Putting them in the correct order.
Does this work? Make it sound good. And
then iterate. Yeah. Since we're down
this rabbit hole, we might as well go
all the way. So, what what app do you
like to write in? Oh, just Word. Yeah.
Mhm. Um the the cosmir RPG and most
freelance jobs are pretty strict. They
have their own templates. Yeah. Uh so
like here's the template, you've got to
match, here's the style guide, you've
got to match, and then you've got to
submit it in such a way. Um the Cosmir
RPG has a very robust like word template
nice that like you have to format stuff
with their styles as you're going and
then Yeah. It makes it easier for the
editor. It makes it easier for the
graphic designer. Absolutely. Um whereas
other ones like uh when I'm working for
uh Green Ronin
uh everything has a particular style but
it's all in like sort of normal style
like there's there's no there's no
uh styles applied to it.
So just different workflows for them.
Yeah. So, kind of going back a bit to
the the cosmir RPG team. So, I'm I'm
guessing that we know the answer to
this, but obviously in 2025, it's it's
the standard that most most teams in the
industry, whether they're whole RPG
production or whether they're their
books or whatever, it's heavily
freelance, right? We know the industry
has changed. Is it fair to assume that's
largely the same that most working on
cosmir it's a free freelance kind of
structure other than a few at the top?
Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Um there's there's
very few full-time uh people. There are
a couple. Yep. Um I'm not one of them. I
am part-time freelance on it. Uh but
yeah, pretty much all the uh
contributors are freelancers.
Um, I don't think No, some of the
freelancers are full-time freelancers.
Uh, and and a lot of them also have
other jobs. Yeah.
Um, something I was going to say there.
Oh, one thing that was really really
cool about that, like uh just a couple
of uh weeks ago, back in February, I
think actually, uh, they put out a call
for writers and they got like 4,000.
Oh my god. Like, wow. Responded to that.
Yeah. Um, and so there's a lot of people
who want to write for this game. Doesn't
surprise me. I'm real excited that I got
noticed on a random DM on a tweet,
right? So,
um, it's really cool. Yeah. I do you
have to are you involved in in reviewing
any of that content?
Yeah, a little bit. So, um, that round
of people coming in, I didn't do any
direct stuff on. I was in the middle of
of handing out revisions to the writers
on on World Guide. Uh, so Lydia and Laya
handed that. Laya's the current project
manager. Um, and the book lead for the
two adventures, Stonewalkers and and the
Misport one coming up.
But what I did get to do is like we've
done a lot of a couple of rounds of
bringing people in and uh back in fall
of
2024 when I was um you know wrapping up
my misborn writing stuff and hadn't been
offered the book lead gig. I was doing
the Stormlight Scenarios e supplement,
which is
um uh a series of short adventures, just
two-page adventures. Oh, wow. And so we
brought in uh six new writers and said,
"All we want is a thousandword adventure
from you to be put on a two-page
spread." And so I'm I'm book leading
that. All of the writers have got their
stuff in. It's in dev editing right now.
it's getting art and stuff soon and
that's really cool and that was our way
to kind of be like let's work with more
people. Let's get some more writers in
and like kind of see what you're doing
and what ideas you have which has been
very fun. you you mentioned earlier this
evening you mentioned um you guys
working on an adventure path
and that that stuck with me cuz so I
mean we haven't played Pathfinder for a
while to put it mildly but but one of
the things I like surprises me but I one
of the things I like about Pathfinder is
the concept of the adventure path
honestly more to just read through them
it's kind of because we like I like the
lid of it but you don't see most RP RPG
is taking that approach. Tons of
adventures, including some heavy
adventures, but an AP is kind of a
different animal, but there will there
be like that kind of AP in Cosmir or
maybe not like gargantuan, but and I'll
and I'll have to qualify that a little
bit in that I think I've only played one
Pathfinder adventure path forever ago.
So, the actual like difference between
an AP and and what we're doing Yeah. I'm
not fully sure of, but this is a six or
seven part adventure.
Each one. Yeah. Each one is
uh like an 8,000word adventure. Wow.
Okay. And uh so that's epic. That's
really cool. Book. Yeah.
The coolest thing about it is um it was
pitched
uh to sort of Brotherwise by Brandon
Sanderson and Dan Wells who's the head
of narrative at Dragon Steel
uh that they wanted to
fill sort of like or finish off a a
loose thread in the novels. Mhm.
Something in uh Way of Kings, the first
Stormlight novels, is sort of hinted at
and never explained. Ready? You have
your home. It's actually Yeah, there you
go. Technically, it's in Words of
Radiance, uh the second book, where it's
not explained, but um basically cool.
It's an actual canon story explaining
what up until now has been considered a
plot hole, but with way better artwork.
With way better. See, that is so cool
the way they're gonna do that. I mean,
this is this I am I am so all in. Yeah.
Well, and it's it's interesting because
you as a group, as players. Mhm. You can
see sort of the outline of the cannon
story.
A to Zed, this is the story. And then
you fill in the middle parts. Yep. As
long as you showed up for the first
adventure and at the end you hand the
mcguffin to group
B, you have fulfilled the book and when
it comes up in book five in Stormlight,
you read it and go, we did
that. Which is wild cuz like when I was
reading book five of Stormlight, I saw
the character name there and I'm like,
oh, oh, I we did this. Yeah. Yeah.
That's why this is here. This is really
I mean we're we're big
into RPG lit like I was just going to
bring it up like or or I guess Yeah.
like lit I guess lit RPG the notion the
idea of of when you talked about being
able to use these books as coffee table
books. Yeah. you know, whether you use,
you know, like taking like a Star Trek
book, one of the Star Trek Adventures
books, and if you don't have someone to
play, right, a a group to play with
right now, sitting there just reading
the material.
Plan Plania is like a really good
example for people. Oh, I bought an
extra copy and keep it at my keep it in
my keep it next to my old man chair.
Hello, my name is Brad and I have a
problem. Oh, yeah. Oh, I got a problem.
I mean, right here, I've got the three
collector's copies of just the core book
of S. Oh, look at that. The same book. I
didn't Yeah, but they look good in three
different colors. They sure do. Yes. But
yeah, when you said that, when you said
that, that just to me to me, I think I
don't know about you, Jace, I just Oh,
yeah. That tells me that this whole
series is is going to have lit as RPG or
RPG as lit all over it. It's we are
going to be we are going to be I'm not a
big kids in a candy store. Yeah. I'm not
a big fantasy player or reader, but like
since I saw the first announcement and
like surfed the website for Cosmo RPG
and especially like listening to all of
this, like if if it were available
today, this is probably this this and
SDA. It's like this is all I would want
to play. I would I would It's fun to
play, too. Is it? Yeah. I I really enjoy
it. it. There's some really cool things
like we're we're deep into um
testing misborn mechanics right now.
Like is it's at print like it's doing
its thing. Um but like I'm running a
Misborn play test uh next Wednesday in a
week. Um and still waiting on my
marching orders of what they'd like me
to test. But I love running the game. I
love playing it. I don't I want to be
careful asking a question here. I and
maybe I I guess I haven't looked in a
few weeks. Not much has been said about
the mechanic, right? There's a little
bit out there. Is that right? So, the
beta rules were available all the way up
until March 31st and then they just went
down because like Demiplane and um all
of the various partners are going to be
implementing the final version of the
rules now. Sure. So, they've taken it
down and so on. Um, but I think you can
still get like the they were out there
at one point. Okay. And so people have
played it. Um, I've run two two streams
on my channel uh showing it off. Um Oh,
good. Okay. Good. Good. And then uh
yeah, there was a um an actual play uh
which was really cool with
um
shoot. I can't remember his name right
now. really big DM out of the UK. Um
Okay. Yeah. And uh
yeah, so like it's out there. It's very
cool. Um I might have to search for that
because I'm really curious about the I I
was so focused on the list. Did the
fancy dice. What? Oh, cool. Yeah, these
are the dragon steel like uh dice for
the important thing is the plot die,
which is sort of the custom D6 that's
Oh, look at that. Yeah. So, it's got two
blank sides. Yeah. Uh, two sides which
are good, something good happened, and
then two sides which are, oh, something
bad happened. Yeah. And so, you throw
the plot die in whenever you're doing
like a narratively interesting role.
It's not on every role. That's
interesting. You know, if your friend's
falling off a cliff, the GM might say,
for example, yeah, make an athletics
test and raise the stakes. Yeah. And
then you put the plot die in to give
that extra axis against success or
failure. You also get opportunity or
complication. Nice. Yeah, it's really
nice. It's a It's a good way to add more
narrative as aspects to RPG. Yeah,
that's I mean we we love that. Okay, so
go ahead. No, no, go ahead. Cuz I'll
I'll I'll wrap up with the question, but
go ahead. So before you do that, I was
going to say I kind of got one of our
final questions here. So, and and
obviously you can answer this any way
you want, Merrick, but cuz you man,
you've written you've written for quite
a few RPGs and quite a few major I mean,
let's Oh, that's you know what is this?
I No, I've heard you in interviews.
Yeah. Yes. So, this is this is my uh I
have a tattoo that is my my portfolio.
Holy crap. Let me
Oh, I just I just uh said, "Holy crap. I
think it's going to be okay." Yeah.
Okay. So, we got we got Star Trek, we've
got The Expanse. This is Actum Cthulhu.
That's the section M logo. And that's
the Stormlight logo. Now, I need to I
need to update it. Um each dot Awesome.
That is so cool. Each dot is something
that I've been paid to do. Wow. And then
I've I've got to throw Misborn on there.
I've got a new expanse thing. Like I've
got Fantasy coming. I don't have
anything on there for D and D. Okay. So,
like toward having to upgrade to a
longer arm. I'm curious if uh I'm
curious if um like you I mean you've
written for all of this. Well, you could
go you could just go full sleeve if you
needed to. Yeah. This way. Oh, yeah. I I
like the cyborg alternative. Whatever.
So, I'm it. Are there
are there any RPG franchises that like
are seem out there, but like you would
just love someday to be able to write
anything for like maybe something a
little Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. I think
you alluded to I think you kind of
alluded to one you wanted to game at
some point. I don't know if there was
one that you might want if it was
something you wanted to write for, but
Yes. I I mentioned uh the Marvel
Multiverse RPG, which is something that
I'm a huge Marvel fan. I'm a comic books
fan as well. Okay, that'd be great. I
I'd absolutely write for them. Um I'm a
huge fan of Monty Cook games. Like
Cipher System, Invisible Sun would be
something that would be incredible to
work on. Interesting. Um and and I love
working with Medifius. Yeah, I've got
all the Dreams and Machine stuff right
here because there
Yeah. No, I I love games like going back
to the Massive Damage Adventures talk
like
we played each one of those oneshots.
Yeah. Was a unique game.
So, right over five years, we played
more than a hundred different RPGs. Oh
my
god, that's amazing. What was the most
you you between the between the gaming
and the writing question, I kind of
killed my own final question. So, I'm
going to change it. It happens. That's
okay. That's okay because you just you
mentioning that that gave me an
interesting kind of question to wrap up.
But before I do that, really thank you
for joining us. We we we really I I
could talk to you for hours about this.
I can keep going. Absolutely. Yeah.
Yeah. if if it I it you know we we know
you have a family and everything like
that and we really appreciate you. We'd
love to have you back on when you have
time and talk more um just because I
mean this conversation could
could last. We could we could have like
episodes like we've had with Jim where
they just they span. Um what was the
most
like I we never I don't like the
negative type of questions. What was
like the craziest or most unique game
that like totally blew your mind or like
weirded you out maybe that you played
when you that when you were doing your
oneshot unique game type of adventures?
you know, you know, like for some
people, you know, like, you know, like,
you know, there are crazy games out
there like Paranoia or things like that,
but you know, is there anything that
kind of
like, you know, was kind of like, okay,
that's a that that's kind of a not like
you didn't like it, but that was kind of
a weird one or that kind of threw the
game that kind of threw the folks for a
loop or um I think, you know, or a
memorable one. the first one and and I'm
quickly cheating and going back to
that's okay. You can cheat all of my
games and looking and looking at uh at
the art for them to just remember, but
the first one that comes to
mind is Blades in the Dark because
um
that's a fate that's a fate background a
fate backbone game face. It's kind of um
it's kind of actually uh uh powered by
the apocalypse. Oh yeah, that's right.
Thank you. Yes. So PBTA is a game system
that does not fit in my brain. I have
played it a couple of times and every
time I read it, I go, this is one of the
best game systems I've ever seen. And
then when I run it, I go, I don't know
what to do. And so I've played City of
Mist and really enjoyed it. I've played
Legacy: Life Among the Ruins and really
enjoyed it. Blades in the Dark bridged
that gap for me in a way where I was
like, "Oh, this makes
sense and it gave a completely different
game gameplay experience. Uh, where it
felt really organic that we were doing a
heist and that it got done quickly. Like
we we had aotted this was a review one I
think a quick one and we'd allotted no
it was the first episode. Anyways, we'd
allotted four hours for the game and we
got done our first adventure in two
hours with like a really succinct story
and we were like, "That was fun. Want to
play another?" And we just did another
one in the next two hours. Wow. Wow.
Jeez. And the book itself is designed in
such a way that is so easy to GM. There
are so many like little tables for
inspiration or like create this area by
just rolling dice a couple of quick
times. Like it's a beautiful wonderful
game.
Um and I have it on my shelf and you
know why I think that because I have it
on my shelf next to
um next to the my fate books and next to
like Savage Worlds because it's that
size book. It's like that kind of that
trade paperback size book.
So, um, but yeah, you're I have not
gotten into the the PBTA stuff. Um, I
just haven't had time, but I've heard
it's fascinating. It's super good. And
so, I got a couple of other things in my
brain that I want to get out. Yeah.
Yeah. High Rollers RPG uh were were the
people who did the Stormlight uh actual
play. So, High Rollers. Okay. That one.
Um, another game
that I super super love is really
anything
Cortex. Um, Firefly. Didn't Wasn't
Firefly that or Serenity? Which one?
Firefly and Serenity were both Cortex.
One's Cortex, one's Cortex Plus. Yeah.
And then, um, like they've done a Marvel
one that I haven't tried. They do Tales
of Zadia. Um, I've used them like I got
the Cortex Prime book, which is like a
build your own RPG book. Okay. And I was
like, we're going to play test this by
creating a Stormlight RPG,
which was which I put out this podcast
like a year before they'd announced the
Stormlight RPG. So, I definitely
mentioned that to them. I was like,
"Yeah, no, I definitely have done some
design in Stormlight into RPGs. I've
been trying to make this happen for a
while.
U You did did you say that? You did say
that to them as you were I did say that.
Yeah. Good. Yeah. I mean I also we my
wife and I uh we also um we make resin
dice. Oh, cool.
One of the things that I did was uh one
of the things that we did was we made 10
sets of dice for the different 10 orders
of Knights Radiant in the Stormlight
Archive.
Doesn't mean anything to you. You
haven't read those. But there are 10
orders of people who use magic in this
world basically.
And we made each of them themed
different color sets and inclusions and
so on. And after I'd gotten, you know,
the job and I was writing for them, I
was like, "Hey, by the way, did you see
this that we made?" Like, I'm a Do you
use a resin 3D? Do you use a resin 3D
printer to make those? No. So, what we
Actually, I got one right here. So,
we've got
um silicon molds. Look at that. That's
And then we do We just pour in a
two-part resin. Uhhuh. And then and then
use a pressure pot. Oh, wow. That
Oh, wow. That's awesome. You, sir, are
deep in it all.
A bunch of things. Well, I don't know
how you have time. You got a family.
Here's here's one of the ones we made.
Look at that. Oh, that's
lovely. That's beautiful. Yeah. Jeez.
You're You're right up there. We've
We've had a couple There's There's folks
out there like Jim and Michael and now
you who I don't know when you sleep
really now. You know, I we I don't know
when you sleep because you How old are
your kids? Uh so my kids are uh 12, 10,
8, and six. Oh my god.
Well, there we go. I mean, all all great
ages, you know. Yeah. I just Yeah. I You
literally You are super human. You You
must You have You don't need to play the
Marvel game. You need to be a character
in it. Seriously. cuz you
cuz you are you are super human, my
friend. Cuz um with everything that
you're doing and a day job and a family.
Yeah. Um, it is it it blows my mind how
much you are able to accomplish and and
literally being able to sit down with us
for for an hour and and hour plus now
and talk with us about all of this and
this has honestly been a pleasure. Like
I really enjoy talking about this and
you two are wonderful to chat with. No,
thank you. We look we would love to have
you back. There's there's I mean thank
you. There's so much we could talk about
now and later. I mean, it's just it's
just nuts. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. Thanks
again. Yeah. I I'll do a quick thing as
well. Yeah. Jason, you're you're more
interested in the science fiction side
of it. Um, are you familiar with the
Secret Project books that Brandon
Sanderson did at the cause? No. So, the
number one Kickstarter of all time was
Oops. Brandon Sanderson wrote a bunch of
secret novels. Yeah. Um and two of them
are certainly more forward in the
timeline. Yeah. So, uh Yumi and the
Nightmare Painter. Okay. And uh The
Sunlit Man. Oh, thank you. All right.
Neither of Neither of them really
require you to know much more outside of
the the Cosmir. Like the Sunlit Man will
require some things won't make sense.
You mean the nightmare painter is very
much a a standalone kind of thing. Okay.
But both of them have much more modern
or science fiction ele elements to them.
Cool. Thank you. I will I will look into
that cuz you know what what hooked me
what what what brought me into the
Sanderson universe was this concept of
hard magic kind of like hard sci-fi. And
I was like what I what I most enjoyed in
Misborn was like there was a I mean
there was a ton of science. Like it was
all just like this makes so much sense.
Like he's taken fantasy and magic and
he's woven into it woven it into this
world in a way that like you can buy.
Like I mean so cool. Oh that's really
cool. I will check those out. Thank you.
Yeah. No problem. All right. Well, thank
you again. We wish you ongoing huge
success with everything. Yeah, we'll
have we we have we'll have much more to
talk about probably when we have you
back again because we'll be creeping
closer to probably releases and Oh,
yeah. And Stormlight Stormlight comes
out this fall. Oh man. And um Misborn
comes out fall 2026. So cool. Well,
we're going to have you on before then.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Before
we while we can still afford to pay our
internet bill and not not have to buy
all the books. Yeah. And while I'm Yeah,
while I still have a house.
[Music]
So, wow, Merrick, we we definitely are
going to have you back on again. Um I
just great deal of fun. Neat guy. Great
deal of fun. Just such a just a nice
conversation. Yeah. um with everything
that you're doing with with live play
and everything with the age mechanic. Um
we could have you on just to talk age
mechanic gaming age gaming alone without
everything else. So yeah. Um
so thank you so much again for for
coming on and taking the time. We
obviously with with the kids and
everything like that. I don't know.
Again, you're one of those people, like
I said, you're you're a superhero. Being
able to do everything you're doing with
your day job, everything you're doing
with writing for gaming and maintain a
significant relationship and have kids.
Yeah. Have kids and then the stuff
you're doing with with I mean cosmir.
Our our kids are older and we gave up on
our marriages long ago. No, no, no way.
Scratching that. And or and gaming, too.
I mean, we don't we we don't game right
now. This is true. I mean, I I know we
always bemoone that, but at the same
time, like, we're constantly talking
about gaming and getting the books that
we love and then talking about those.
And yeah, which which speaking of which
of which, let's head over to the Lon
Cafe. Let's What's on your desk? So, are
you're not going to play the sound this
week? I I whistled. That's going to have
to do. Okay. Okay. I thought you were I
thought you were going to utilize the I
need to get the I need to get the um the
I'll get the MP3 out of it. Oh, you're
you were testing it earlier. Yeah, that
was just a test. Sorry to get you
excited for nothing. Oh, man. I'm going
to leave that in there because hearing
your disappointment is good for the
audience. Yeah, I I figured you'd leave
this in here. So, um so I think I
mentioned this in the last episode, but
um the uh materials from the spring sale
fallout arrived. Yeah. Yeah, you did. Um
Yeah. And um I've been going through it.
Um and Trent Trent has given his my son
has Trent has given his stamp of
approval of interest on it. Yeah, that's
cool. And I do like how they have um
implemented the 2d20 in this realm. I
will say what's interesting, this is
just a real This is like kind of an odd
sidebar. the 2d20
dice for for it. Yeah. Are a little
larger than
than the ones for like STA. Um and so
aren't the like aren't the
STA Kirk tunic dice? Aren't those a
little larger too? Like the the green
tunic? Maybe not. Okay. I think there
was one that was I have two sets I have
two sets of those cuz I like those for
whatever reason. Okay. Um, and I use one
of those sets when I when I would roll
with Captain's Lock. So, what do you
think about these? Like, how how do they
roll? Like I haven't rolled with them
yet cuz I'm cuz I I they're still in the
box. They're in the package. Yeah. Um
but um just going through it, it one
well two three things. One, it has me
interested in playing like the old
classic Fallout games again, like the
video games, but no time to do that.
Nope. Um, two, it reminds me that that I
am overdue and finishing the TV series.
I'm kind of like halfway through and
then Oh, yeah. Um, stopped toward the
end of last year when I was going
through an interview process for a job.
Um, and three, um, it's definitely one
of those games where I could see
utilizing
um, one of the pre-builts that they have
out there. um like even one in the
starter kit to
um play at some point, especially if
Trent would be interested in doing
that's cool once school is out for him.
So, but like I think I alluded to in the
last episode um it would have to be
after um school is finished for him,
which would be later next month going
so same for me. Yeah. So, between that
and um I'll be honest with you again, I
have
um um you know, it really the talk of
hard magic and everything um really lit
a fire under me with Gersps and I think
I talked with you this weekend kind of
as a sidebar about writing. We had the
little back and forth back and forth
messaging about writing, just
generalized writings, some some stuff I
was alluding to in writing. And I ended
up
um just doing a lot
of article pulling and all of that
related to like world building and doing
some writing about
um like and mapping of things related to
world building. I just got into a a a
knack with that where I didn't
necessarily map it out in the context of
the game, but just, you know, areas and
things I would I want
um ideas and things that I want my
adventurers to experience. Yeah. Oh, I
like it. So, that's the part to play
gers. It's Yeah, that's and and I think
I even I think I even sent you um I even
was doing some research about like dice
mechanics and I found something about
like Savage Worlds versus Gersps, you
know. I think I sent you That was
interesting. That was cool. I don't know
how I got on it. I was just looking at
different dice mechanics based off of
the cosmir verse and um and I like and I
I just for whatever reason I kind of
like the the Gersps verse, but what I
found interesting is is that
Gemini for whatever reason when I kept I
kept asking it. I'm like give me a good
generic
um role playinging system. Yeah. It kept
throwing me back to Genesis.
It really Gemini and I'm using air
quotes. Gemini likes air quote Genesis a
lot because it kept throwing me to that
and I kept and I kept telling it well I
kept Gemini Genesis you know there it's
becoming difficult to find provide me
some other options and then it would
provide me some options and I'd say well
I mean I like that system. Yeah. And it
and it's funny. So, um that's
interesting. I wish I I really hope the
be I I wish the best for for Edge and
for the for that system because I I
really would like to see it continue.
Oh, me too. What about you? What's been
you you are first of all for those for
those which is everybody who's listening
can't see you are in a white padded
room. I mean your new office. Well, I'm
in a in a in a in a Yeah. a freshly
painted room. So So this I Yeah. My this
I can keep very brief. Um it's not
what's on my desk. It's the fact that
after 3 months I'm sitting at my desk.
Mhm. And my desk is and that I have a
desk again and bookshelves again as we
record uh as we record. I am 2 days
away. Actually, we're two days away from
the com total project completion of our
downstairs renovation. the bedroom and
ba I just say the um uh the uh office
and bathroom. And uh my office is done
entirely other than some touch-up paint
in a handful of spots, including uh a
few on the shelf. And so I can't finish
putting the books back uh to the
built-ins. And I can't put any of the
RPG stuff back because that's of course
You can't put You can't put the
Federation flag back up yet either, can
you? I never had that. Well, what was
behind you? Was it That was a UN flag.
Oh, it was. But but they've become so
remarkably worthless in so many ways
that I probably won't hang that again. I
You should get You should get a
Federation flag. I really should. So, I
don't have anything on the walls as you
commented uh when when we logged on. Um
that will happen uh that'll probably
happen like next weekend. That'll be the
last thing. That'll be easy. But, uh, I
am just a few days away from having the
books all back in here. Um, as Brad
knows, I've got a few books in here and,
um, or I will. And, uh, so it's just
glorious. It's glorious. This is the
first day in a few months I've been back
in my office. I work there this morning.
We're recording now. It's a real door.
Solitude. I mean, the outgassing from
the new carpet is probably going to kill
me, but still, it's totally worth it.
That's fine. It's fine. That's right.
Yeah. You have a window you could open.
Of course, I've had I've actually I had
that open intermittently like all
afternoon when I and evening when I was
in here. Yeah. What What's the plant by
the window? Oh, Amy got me uh at Trader
Joe I'm not sure what it is. She picked
up a little very classy flowering plant.
I'm going to have a couple I think I'm
going to add an orchid here. And then
out in the egress that's going to be a
potted plant garden. Nice. Yeah. So once
once it's warm enough here in Miniota um
once it's warm enough which will be like
I'll probably start that like late May.
Y um because it's it's it's now the
best. It's it's only one of two south
facing windows we have in the house and
it's the only one where we can put
plants. So So I'll have I'll have Are
you sure you're Are you sure that you
you'll be able to Oh, I'm going to
sneeze. I'm going to let you keep going.
Well, well, I was going to say, are you
sure that are you sure that because it's
only one of two south facing windows,
you're actually going to have solitude
in there or are you going to have a lot
more visitors because it's a south
facing window and you're going to have a
potted garden in there, you know, like
like your family. Oh, no, no, no. I'm
not concerned about that. It's No, it'll
be a lovely change. So, that's what
Nothing on the desk, just have a desk,
which is very exciting. Yes. So, yeah.
Well, as always, thanks for being with
us. Um, Merrick, thanks again. I I just
just we really thought you were just a
lovely human being and creative to put
it mildly. Uh, thank you for wasting
your time chatting with us. Uh, when uh
when Cosmir starts to release, we if not
before, we really want to have you back.
In the meantime, everybody, uh, be well,
stay well. We'll see you in a couple
weeks.
[Music]
