Hey everyone, welcome to the nights of
last call. My name is Derek Melinda.
What you're about to watch is a recent
clip from a Daggerheart live stream
where we gave advice to firsttime GMs
who may need a little help with running
Daggerheart. Enjoy. All right, so our
third tip for people who are new to this
is this idea of mastering GM moves and
framing. Now, this advice, I'm not going
to lie, this is advice that comes from
many other really, really well-designed
Powered by the Apocalypse style games,
especially from Magpie and of course
from Vincent Baker and, you know, uh,
Avery Alder and, you know, all the all
the folks who have come before. So, GM
moves is a term. It was made up
by people from the Forge. Sorry, you
know, Baker, I love you. But it was made
up by Vincent Baker to sound smart and
clever and honestly, it's a terrible
name. There's a lot of things in PBTA
language that I I love, you know, I love
the mechanics, but a lot of the language
is really, really bad. The fact of the
matter is a GM move just means you're
talking.
It just means that you're doing
something. Um, the list that they give
you in all these games is not
prescriptive. It's descriptive. It means
that it's not literally saying you have
to do one of these 10 things and nothing
else. It's saying as the GM when the
players want when it's your turn to do
something and that could mean because
the players are looking at you. So if
the players say I look around the room,
what do I see? And then you say you see
an ancient script maybe once dedicated
to a god of good or light but it's been
terribly defaced through years of
occupation by foul creatures in the
dark. The holy symbol that once may have
adorned the altar has been broken and
shattered and ancient uh graffiti and
and uh filth cover the altar. Guess
what? You just made a GM move. You're
like, "Wait, I I just I just made a GM
move." Yeah, that was a GM move. I know
it's right? GM moves are
Showing them what's happening. When the
player says, "Hey, can I climb down
that?" When that player say, "Can I
climb down that pit?" And I go, "Yeah,
do you have a rope?" And they say,
'Yeah.' And I go, 'Yeah, you can do it.
No problem. Guess what? I just made I
just I just did the uh uh uh ask them a
cost. Uh you know, tell them the cost
and ask, you know, because I said, "Do
you have a rope?" "Yes, then you can do
it. If you don't, well, then it's
dangerous and maybe we have to make a
roll." That is a GM move. It doesn't
seem like a GM move, but it is. So GM
moves are kind of So, for
starters, don't get hung up on the term,
okay? Uh it it it it
it's a way to sort of think about doing
what you're doing with intention
that I will agree to. Okay. It is about
learning to game master with intention.
Unlike some of the other games that you
may have played, games that are powered
by the apocalypse or inspired by powered
by the apocalypse as Daggerheart is have
principles and agendas. These are games
that want you to be about something. The
game asks you, in fact, it dare dare I
say it demands that you make your game
follow these principles and agendas. And
Daggerheart very intelligently even
allows these agendas and principles to
change depending on your campaign frame.
So
as a result, it is your job to what what
GM moves are a way of of of sort of
getting you to think about is talking
and when you before you start making a
move, before you start describing what
you're doing, think about why you're
doing it. All right? Think about how you
can use this moment at the table to
push your agenda forward. So rather than
being focused on GM moves, you should be
focused on your agenda and you should be
focused on your players and you should
be focused on their uh and your
principles, right? And asking yourself
what does this move do? There's an old
uh there's an old screenwriting thing
which says right right like no scene is
worth a movie no line of dialogue is
worth a scene. A good editor you are
with your players a very limited amount
of time and you should be cutting
through the as much as you can
and you should make every minute count.
Now, when I was a young younger lad, uh
my friends and I would play D and D on
like Wednesday, Friday, Saturday, like
almost every week, and it would be like
seven hour sessions. And so, we were
playing like 21 hours a week, and I
could afford to have a session or even
an entire week's worth of sessions, 20
hours worth of sessions be literally
almost nothing. Now, 20 hours worth of
sessions might honestly take me four to
five months um to get through. I mean,
these days, it feels like it. So I this
is about thinking through the lens if if
what we were talking about before about
spotlight management was really about
thinking about as a good director or a
good cinematographer. Uh GM moves and
framing are about being a good editor.
So
what does it mean to make a GM move? It
means you need to think about what does
this serve point does this serve in the
ongoing scene and wider story and how
soft and how hard should I make the
move? Don't worry about the specific
moves like separate them or reveal
danger or show them the cost. You can
they're on your GM screen or you can
write them out. You can learn to sort of
uh you know uh uh think about them in
that context. But I think you should
really more focus on doing soft and
hard. Is this a move that is going to
really stick it to the p to the players
and put them in a incredibly tough spot
or to immediately show them the
consequences of their actions? They
already jumped off the cliff and now I'm
going to show them what happens. You
take damage.
Or is this a move in which I want to
show the players how the world reacts
and maybe set up a potentially dangerous
situation but not immediately follow
through with that and give the players a
chance to respond.
This soft versus hard move paradigm is
the most important thing that you could
do. Okay? Because as a result of that,
if when the when you do something, when
the players do something and you respond
with a hard move, the players will begin
to realize by association that doing
that action has consequences and they
may then reconsider that action. They
may uh do something different. They may
be more cautious and they be more may be
more careful. If you respond with a soft
move, then the players will likely not
feel as uh immediately punished by their
action and instead will feel like the
game is still in their control. So, the
difference between this is me saying
the hard move is the goblins surround
you and begin stabbing you and I'm
making attack rolls, right? Let's say
they're minions, right? I activate a
group of minions. The goblins move in,
they surround you, and they begin
stabbing you, and I'm making attack
rolls. Um, that's a hard move because
the die is cast, the players are going
to take damage if I roll high enough.
A soft move would be me telling Smen,
SMDon, a group of goblins is rushing
towards you, beginning to move left and
right to surround you. Now, did I just
activate the goblins? No. Did I
spotlight the goblins?
No, I would I'm I'm
fictionally describing that they are
moving around you. And now I go to
Spendon. What do you do?
Now, in both of those situations, the
goblins are racing forward and they're
going to try to attack you. But the
difference between the hard move and the
soft move is that in the soft move I am
giving Smen or maybe I'm giving a
guardian in the party or something a
chance
to do something about it before that
that badness comes through. And once the
badness comes through, right, the dice
is cast. Additionally, this is sort of a
tangent, but uh in Power by the
Apocalypse games, when a Gia makes a
hard move, it's really hard. It's just
like, "Oh, you didn't do that thing. the
orc hits you, does damage, you take the
damage. There's no attack roll. The GM
doesn't make an attack roll. In, you
know, Dungeon World, for example, if the
GM says you're taking damage, you're
just taking damage. But in Daggerheart,
we have things like the monsters making
an attack roll or an adversary making an
attack roll or the players making a
reaction roll. So, actually, you can be
really hard because the players are
still going to have a good chance of
avoiding that. you know, but attack
could miss the, you know, if I said the
goblins surround you and they all stab
you for six damage, that might be like
the hard move from a dungeon world game
and you just take the six damage,
there's no recourse. I' I'm making the
hard move. Whereas, I could describe
that and do that in dungeon in uh dagger
heart and roll low on my D20 and end up
doing, you know, they miss. You know,
you you're awesome and you parry all
their attacks and you look like a
badass. Um, and so you can actually be
kind of hard, you know, you can be
harder than you might even be in a PvTA
game because there's this extra layer of
protection. So, in that respect, you
know, activating an adversary and
getting them to do attacking uh is kind
of a it's kind of a medium move, you
know, it's not really hard. It's kind of
it's kind of soft, you know, u or but so
it's kind of between because they can
miss. Um, so if those are moves, the
other thing to do as a GM and when
you're thinking about as a sort of an
editor is framing, right? Do not feel
like you need to show every aspect of
every scene.
If the players are entering,
uh, you know, uh, if the players are
going to go negotiate with the baron for
the release of their captive, you know,
of their companions, you don't literally
have to show the players talking to
every single guard along the way. You
don't have to describe the entire
castle. You can just boom, cut right to
the baron's audience chamber. In fact,
you could even cut in in media rest and
I can say, you know, the baron, you
know, suddenly we're just there and the
baron says, "Now I've given granted you
an audience. What do you want? If you're
here for your companions, they are writ
now I've and now I say and then I told
the players and what do you do?" And now
we're in that scene and we've cut
through all that. So hard framing puts
the players in the spot. Um, you know,
you're cutting out Yeah. you're cutting
out the FBT, you know, you're cutting
out um to sort of cut to the cut to the
action, cut to the chase. Um Rayo Man
says, "Eliminate the shoe leather like
in movies and TV shows." And I agree
with that, Rayo Man. Um again, maybe you
have a lot more time to play than I do,
in which case, awesome, and you can you
can really, you know, explore the space.
I don't have that kind of time. So, for
me, it's really important as a GM is to
think about, does this scene need to
happen? Can we cut through it? Can we
cut to the part that matters? Can we get
to the part that matters? It's the same
thing true with a combat because we're
not here to sort of figure out if the
PC's HP are going to deplete over the
period of time before they earn enough
experience points from gathering
treasure from the dungeon so that they
can level up. it's, you know, if the
combat's not interesting anymore, then
we can just say it's over and we can
move to the next thing, you know.
Um, and I think that's an important
skill to sort of manage. So, again, you
want to think about this in terms of
story beats. You want to think about
this in terms of of of advancing the
plot. Um, now again, what is the plot?
It's not pre-written. We're sort of
figuring out as we go along. And I think
this becomes more important if you are
on a limited time frame. I know that
there are people out there who just want
to, you know, talk about the weather in
character and I have complete respect
for you. But
if you're on a limited time crunch, I
would learn to sort of as a GM take more
control of your story and take more
control of the the camera and take more
control of the editing room. So when you
think about the GM moves, don't get
caught caught up on the nomenclature.
Um, when in doubt, pick a couple that
you like, that you feel like comfortable
with. Uh, maybe, you know, separating
them, showing them danger, or showing
them signs of approaching danger, and
make those your defaults. And when in
doubt, like again, if there's 12 or 14
of them, maybe you get around to using
them. But like, try to learn three of
them. And maybe only use three or four
of them for the first handful of
sessions that you play, right? and
figure that out and get comfortable
calling for those moves and using those
moves and using that idea of escalating.
The reason why those GM moves are
written in the book is because those
moves tend to be very good at promoting
your agenda at pushing the characters
towards adventure at putting them into
excitement uh uh pushing them towards
danger, fantasy, adventure, excitement,
all that jazz, right? But when you're
doing that, don't just say your move,
right? Make it make it part of the
fiction. Describe it. I mean, if you
want to, you know, even as you're sort
of teaching your players, I suppose if
you really want to do this, in fact,
this is one of the things I want to do
in my actual play is, you know, you can
make a move and describe it in the
fiction, right? as I I describe that a a
squadron of orc reinforcements crosses
the burning bridge um to join the fry
and I tell them I'm showing signs of an
approaching danger. I could tell my
players that you know to help them
everybody get more comfortable with
what's going on. But you don't really
need to. Ultimately, I would hope I
would think is that your goal is to get
players to sort of think about the game
in the terms of the the narrative and to
think about what's going on in the
fiction and to ultimately sort of root
themselves in that perspective. Now, you
can absolutely take a step back and say
in a moment if you're really caught up
for it, hey players, uh what would be
cool here? And now some players are not
going to be comfortable with this, but
one of the things that we can start to
do is figure out ways to make our
players have feel like they have more of
a say in the ongoing narrative. And
while it is something that I don't do as
much because I'm pretty comfortable
making GM moves, I will sometimes say,
you know, hey, uh, you know, the the orc
is going to, you know, the orc pushes
their attack on you. I don't know,
something bad something bad happens to
you. What is it? And the player might
go, "I don't know, maybe my weapon
breaks." And I go, "Yeah, that's cool.
We'll go with that. Your weapon breaks."
And you're like, "Why would a player
ever want their weapon to break?" If
you're, this goes back to the previous
tip, which you can go watch, you know,
in a prior thing, which is it's not
about winning or losing. It's about
creating a cool moment, whether your
player character is affected by it or
not. So, we could do a whole video on GM
moves and framing. This is sort of just
a highlevel concept of it. We've done
entire set of games long before
Daggerheart was even produced on this
channel. Uh we did a we did a thing
called I think called Hard Moves. I
think we did a video called or a stream
called Hard Moves, a stream called Soft
Moves. You can go talk uh and and go
look at them there. There's a lot of
stuff here and it's worth it's worth
checking
