Um, hey everybody. Welcome. Uh, this is
the Sunday crew, session number four,
and we're kind of doing some presession
stuff, but, uh, the Sunday crew is here.
They are in town, and I was answering
some questions for, uh, for Outlaw, uh,
about, uh, about town phase, and I just
wanted to make sure I was recording
because I talked about all of this with
the Saturday crew when they went to
town, but of course, not everybody on
YouTube gets to see that. So, so
everything in torch bear has a cost. In
the adventuring phase, the cost is turns
on the grind. In camp, the cost is
checks, which you had to earn during
your adventuring phase. In town,
everything costs money. Every time you
take actions in town, you are going to
keep track of what's called your
lifestyle cost. Think of it as your
bill, right? That's building up. It's
like when you go to a hotel and you
charge everything to the room and you
settle your bill when you check out.
Well, the same thing's true in town. in
town. Uh most of the time you don't pay
for anything. You just basically say,
"Put it on my tab." And you build up
this expense and then when you go to
leave town, you have to pay your bill
and you're going to make a resources
check. And if you fail the resources
check, basically you you kind of, you
know, skimp skimped on your bill a
little bit and you didn't make good on
your payment. If you make your resource
check, then you know, you basically are
able to cover all of your expenses. So
in town, various actions that you take
will increase your lifestyle cost. So
one of the things that you guys are
going to have to do while you're in town
is sort of keep track either, you know,
you can, you know, on on on uh on the
screen there or you know, on your own
time what your current lifestyle cost
is. It starts at zero and it goes up
from there. 1 2 3 depends on what you do
and how much you do. But that's
ultimately going to decide how expensive
your town visit was when you go to leave
town. So, normally when you go to the
market to try to haggle, that increases
your lifestyle cost by one. But if you
have the haggler, dwarf ability, outcast
ability, you get to do it for free.
Additionally, when you would haggle with
somebody in like a
conflict, uh just like how there's like
the might is used for physical
conflicts, precedence is basically how
socially powerful your character is. And
as adventurers, your precedence is zero.
You basically are like scum of the earth
ronin. No one wants to haggle with you.
Um, but as a shrewd dwarf, you can
ignore that requirement and basically
you'll be able to haggle with
essentially anybody.
I think I'll take that one, the armor,
because it fits my character better.
Sure. I mean, now realize that that
principally and predominantly is only
going to be really useful in um town.
No, you're But there could be a
situation where you are trying to
negotiate in a conflict and that could
happen in a uh in a dungeon scenario and
go. Sure. Uh and uh and and then if it
uh uh well that was a convinced
conflict. This would be a negotiate
conflict. And in a negotiate conflict,
your haggler skill will determine uh
whether you can negotiate with them or
not. And for example, lowly adventurers.
Basically, if if if let's say um I think
let me let me find the let me find the
list here or the order. That just means
I need to actually get a haggler skill
now. That would probably that would
probably be a good thing. Um uh I got to
make it hard on myself. Well, you do
have the negotiating nature, so as long
as you you could probably keep using
your nature uh to do that uh as well.
But
um
conflicts. So in
um for so like the might scale which is
like the physical might scale, right?
Adventurers are a three, cobalts are a
one, goblins are a two, ogres are a
five, hill giants are a six, ancient
dragons and storm giants are sevens.
Well, there's also a social scale called
precedences. Zero is prostitutes,
criminals,
adventurers. One is like peasants and
laborers. Two is merchants, architects,
doctors. Three is landless nobility.
Four is high nobility. Five is low
clergy. Six is high clergy. And sevens
are kings and queens. So just like
there's a precedence to who you can
fight with might, there is a sort of
scale for who you can socially interact
with. Basically, it doesn't matter how
good you are at haggling and how good
you are at convincing. If your
precedence is too low and you go up to
some king or a high bishop or noble,
they'll they literally will not listen
to you. Just like how no matter how
powerful your adventurer was, if your
might was three, you could never go and
kill a storm giant because their might
is too much higher than your own.
Der, where do we write this um this
thing that we get? Is it a trait that
this this like a ranger level benefit?
So, I get one of these benefits and I
know which one I want. Where does it go
on this sheet? You have an entire sheet
dedicated to your level benefits. Level
Oh, you write it in on the level
benefits. Perfect. Thank you. And in
fact, I think it says add level two
benefits. Yep. I'm in edit mode now.
Yep. Okay.
Thank you. Uh, no
problem. All right. So, who is level
two?
Sadok is. Sadok is. Okay.
Yes, sir.
All right. Here we go.
Saddock. Um, Berber is not level two.
Amos is not level two. Is Tain level
two? I don't think so cuz Jim Scott
wasn't here. So, I think it's just
Coronal and Saddok. Amos could have been
level two, but Boothby chose to not
cheat, which again is the kind of
behavior I would expect out of the
greatest player of all
time. All right. Um well uh technically
we're still waiting for GM Scott but uh
in the meantime uh here just my camera
is not working. Oh okay. Well something
has claimed control of it and I can't
figure out what. Sick. Um well if uh if
somebody wants to I don't know who wants
to give the prologue but even though it
is we are starting obviously in town
phase you guys still get a prologue if
you are interested in
one. Now remember uh if you do the
prologue and it is to our satisfaction
you can clear one condition in recovery
order that means left to right and or
top to bottom if you're looking at your
character sheet but you cannot cure sick
or
injured. So basically uh and then if you
don't have any injury or you don't have
any conditions that you could clear you
can instead um clear a point of taxed
nature if you have a point of taxed
nature. And then if you don't have a
point of attacks nature, you can re you
can remove a point of burden or
remememorize a spell. And then if you
don't have any of those, uh, get [ __ ]
I think I did it last time, so I don't
think I can do it. Correct. And if you
did it last time, you cannot do it this
time. And it sounds like probably almost
everyone else in the party would benefit
more than I would
because I don't have anything to clear.
Do you have any tax nature? I do not.
Bob could get rid of exhausted. Bob
could get rid of exhausted, but that
would mean Bob would have to give the
prologue. Correct. And that's that's the
problem. Well, but if he does it poorly,
that doesn't hurt us. Uh, correct. But
you do lose. It just doesn't help Bob.
It just doesn't help Bob and it doesn't
help anybody
else. Um, I need to figure out new
belief cuz mine got changed last
session. Yeah. So, yeah, I think a lot
of us have I have a lot of blanks to
fill in. Right. So, even though now I'll
be completely, you know, honest with you
guys. This is your first town section.
Saturday crew did their first town
session. It kind of took the whole
session. Um I don't think it should
always take that long. Uh but because
there's a lot of like I don't know how
this works and we're trying to figure
stuff out, blah blah blah. Um you know,
I I don't you might I'm not saying you
won't make it back to the dungeon or
something like that, but if we do, it'll
probably be like, you know, you'll get
there and you know, we'll end it. In
fact, I think Saturday crew basically
returned to the dungeon, went to the
camp and there's campsite and kind of
ended it there. But
um uh so keep that in mind when you
start thinking about uh if your beliefs
have changed cuz you still can get fate
points, persona point uh you know awards
this session even if you are in town. Uh
but also think about your goals
specifically you know like think about
it like what is my goal in town you know
to to to to keep that in mind and uh to
make it uh achievable. And of course,
remember, a goal can't be something that
is so, you know, I'm going to buy
rations isn't really much of a goal. Uh
because it's, you know, that's like
saying like my goal is I'm going to walk
to the next room in the dungeon. It's
it's kind of like pretty assumed that
you will. What would be a a town goal?
You know what? I have no idea.
Uh well like I mean a town goal might be
like a town goal might be like for
example like I'm going to I'm going to
focus on my health and recover this
illness because that's not a guaranteed
thing like right like depending on you
know and get rid of your sick condition.
Um I'm going about how about taking all
the the spells I got from this elven
spell book and adding them to my library
so I can be useful to the group. Well is
that a goal? The problem with your
library is your library is nowhere near
uh this thing. Now the thing is you have
to realize is that like you can there's
a difference between your library,
right? Because it's not your library,
Jim Scott. It's your master's library.
Correct. Yeah. My my library is
currently maintained by him until such
time as he deems me worthy. However, I
could create my own secret stash library
somewhere. Correct. But then it's
vulnerable to theft. Correct. And I
should point out that you can learn and
cast spells out of this ancient elven
spell book. Yeah.
But if you wanted to do that, GM Scott,
that would probably involve you leaving
town and traveling to the wizards tower,
which would involve you going into the
adventuring phase. Okay. Now, now that
might be something the group is willing
to do because, you know, hey, this is
Tane. This is our buddy. This is our
wizard. And maybe the session is we're
gonna finish up here in town. Then we're
going to make a journey to the Teserw.
Uh, and that's another town phase.
Technically, you'll go from town phase
to town phase. Um, we can't do that
because we got that stupid necklace on.
Well, no. Yeah, that's true. You will.
But to be fair, all you would do is gain
a permanent hungry and thirsty that you
could not uh you could not clear until
uh until you went back to the dungeon.
But um but yeah, um you could do that.
Sounds like a horrible fate for a
Hobbit.
Yeah. So,
um, scrolls then, creating a scroll, it
I saw it increased the, uh, uh, my
lifestyle by plus one. I for each level
of scroll I try and create. Uh, yeah.
So, generally speaking in town, uh,
there's different costs for different
actions. Also, not every action is
available in every town. This is a
remote village. Certain things are just
not here. this town does not have like a
hotel or something like that. Uh, you
know, it barely it basically has a flop
house where you can kind of like sleep
on the floor. Um, however, there is a
idea of something called personal
business. And this is basically kind of
a catch-all category. It's you doing
stuff that involves, you know, using
using your own skills and taking care
of, you know, your own personal
business. And doing something like
crafting a scroll, Jim Scott, would be
uh considered personal business. And it
is it is generally plus one period.
Okay.
Because I think having one scroll would
be nice. I mean having a a bag full of
scrolls would be fantastic, but having
at least one would be nice because it
doubles the number of spells I can cast.
Correct. Um I go from one to two. And
that uses your scholar skill. Is that
right? I believe so. Yeah. Yeah, let me
uh double check.
Now, I should note when you make the
scholar check, uh GM Scott, this that
actually removes it from your memory
bank and puts it into the scroll, right?
So, I would have to remememorize it.
Correct. Um assuming that's the one I
want to memorize, right? Yeah. And you
can do multiple scribes as in a single
lifestyle check. It just makes it
harder. If scribing multiple spells at
once, use the highest. Now, obviously,
you only have one spell memorized, but
um um if scribbing multiple scrolls
spells at once, use the highest circle
spell as the base obstacle and add one
per additional spell.
So, okay.
Um and each individual spell is listed
with its scribing obstacle. Right.
So, all right.
Uh, I'm going to update your guys'
little uh level overlays and then uh you
guys can start thinking about uh who
wants to give the prologue and who wants
what are your goals going to be as a
group and because let me be very clear
about this. I really can't [ __ ] with you
in town, you know, like this is take
forever then. Well, I mean like this
this is like this is this is the
players, you know, time to recover. This
is a time for you guys to strategize, to
think about your loot, to split your
loot, to figure out what options you
want to do. This is a great opportunity
for you to use if you have money. I
mean, everything costs money. That's the
key, right? The only limiting factor
here is your cash. Um, and uh, you know,
obviously and what's available in this
town. Now, it's a remote village. It's
not great. It's not it's not it's not
the bustling crossroads that Saddok is
from. Um, on the other hand, uh, uh, so
it's it's really a playerdriven thing.
Now, you still may make checks and those
checks could result in twists and uh
conditions if you fail them obviously,
but more than not often than not, it is
going to again be something that is not
going to get you into too much trouble
because this is really a town um a
playerdriven phase.
So, uh, can, uh, can we talk like, uh,
like maybe I might be you might be able
to if I just state what I want to do,
you might be able to figure out how that
would work me like mechanically or what
what what it actually means in a game
sense cuz Yeah. Yeah. So, so, um, I
think we have to set our new belief. Do
we I don't know the order. Is there a
recap first? Then we set our technically
goals. No, you set your beliefs and
goals actually technically after the
prologue. So, okay. You know, but yes.
Uh well, I think Bob mechanically is the
best person to do it because that would
avoid him having to try and lose
exhaustion. But then again, if Berber
doesn't lose exhaustion, doesn't matter
if all so carnalist is can't do what he
did last time, right? No, no, I'm saying
I'm just saying if if one of us is
exhausted, we all be we all it's all
it's effectively we're all um suffer the
same penalty. Correct. Right. Uh unless
you don't put him in the conflict,
stick this one out. Um so I mean I don't
want to ask Bob to do something he
doesn't want to do or feel comfortable
doing. Um look, I'll give the recap.
It's just not going to be good. I
guarantee you I forgot half of what
happened and it's gonna be real rough.
The thing I remember is I leveled up
when we got to town.
I mean, I'm willing if you want to if
you want to give it and or don't mind
giving it and um I'm I I trust your I I
believe in you, Balist. Gosh,
I'm memoring it what it used to be.
Which is funny because you're an elf and
Oh, yeah. Mechanically, my character
should know this, but Bob the player
does not remember things very well.
And then I spent the last two weeks in a
in a fog. So, um,
uh, remember we met GM Scott? It's been
four It's been four weeks. Yeah, I know.
It's been a month since we played last
because of Easter.
I
mean, yeah. I mean, I could try if you
guys want. You know what? You know what?
You could try and and because of the
thing, you know, I I'll I'll let other
people if they need to if they need to
make a just lucky if I remember what we
did. There's not be like the fluff of of
laughing outlaw here. I want to check
something.
That's
funny. All right. Well, c can you at
least start with something? Oh, I
didn't. Ryan said he was checking
something. I was see if I if I shared my
uh notes, but I did not. So, you don't
have those. Even better.
Um what I recall last time uh is our
party of four uh awoke in the
um temple room that was uh dimly lit
after we got through that dragon uh
door. Um we then opened it back up to
let uh Tan uh who was on the other side
uh knocking and we let him back in. uh
recapped with the group. Um then we made
camp. We did a map test so we could
easily travel back to what we were
doing. We then we debated whether to
leave to go back to town or not. We
decided to press on into the darkest
area of that room.
We pressed on through the whatever it
was a bay or something and it was dark
in there and we were uh confronted by I
thought it was like a ghost thing and it
had like uh little al coes with like
four skeletons in each one and they were
ready to you know go to town on us. We
we were way outmatched. We decided to
sort of negotiate now.
You know, before that, you know, we
decided to change our goals and Jim Jim
Scott decided he didn't want the dagger
anymore as his goal. Then we decided to
find that dagger in that next room. Um,
we decided that we we were told we were
not worthy of the dagger uh unless we
went and found this harp. Um, but uh we
were able to somehow uh negotiate well
enough with the
um gas ghost thing uh where we didn't
die or die. We didn't lose too
drastically in in the encounter. And um
we were we left with some of us taking
on sort of a curse um blessing curse.
And uh we then we needed we were tasked
with, you know, finding this um harp and
uh making ourselves worthy
of being this great party that's going
to like, you know, cleanse this dungeon
of whatever is going on.
And then we hight tailed it back out
finally of the dungeon. Oh, and we found
Oh, they gave us some money. We got some
of the money uh from some of the
skeletons and that that was what we
needed, some gold. And we got some gold
and then we then we hightailed it back
out finally. Um we camped out doors,
which was great. Uh we were able to rest
up outside in and sort of around the the
the temple entrance and then started
making our way back to town where we uh
arrived here uh half us leveled up. That
uh that's pretty good. Yeah, I don't
think I missed anything drastic. The
only thing you really missed was that
the ghost was extremely disappointing us
that we had not earned enough money to
get prostitutes in town like the other
group did. Yes. He specifically was very
concerned about the prostitutes in the
town.
Yeah, I must have just forgot about
that. Um, I think you also forgot about
the trap. Uh, there was a there was a
trap where Indiana Jones the Indiana
Jones the only the worthy can enter
here. Oh, we had a duck.
Let the respectful enter here and you
guys walk through and uh you guys if I
remember I think I just walked and
almost died. Correct. Well, you failed.
And so what I did is I gave you a
success with a condition. And the
condition was you afraid because at the
very last minute, uh, Tain yelled out,
"Duck." And which would make sense that
I forgot again that it happened.
Duck, we're not playing Dragon Bane.
And, uh, so Caranolas, you can get rid
of your exhausted. Oh, all right. So,
um, so kind of a quick status check, uh,
as you guys prepare to set up your
beliefs. Remember, at the beginning of a
session, you can change your beliefs and
instinct. Um, and you can also uh uh you
should always update your goal to kind
of reflect what your goal is for the
session. Of course, maybe you didn't
achieve it last session, but it's still
valid and you can keep it, of course,
but you should be aiming. And remember,
of course, if you have a goal, people
can share the same goal, but only one
person can own earn a persona point.
Another thing to consider might be to
take a look at your current fate and
persona points. For people at home,
remember that the uh number in the
silver medallion is how many fate points
they have. Fate point usually lets you
uh roll a single die um or it lets you
um explode your sixes. The persona point
in gold is the much rarer resource. It's
the harder one to acquire, but that's
the one that lets you roll multiple dice
or potentially tap your nature and add
all of your nature dice to a single
roll, allowing you some pretty
significant big rolls. So, uh, one of
the things that you want to consider too
is how many you what you need maybe
potentially to get to level three or is
there a resource that you need more of
or want more of, uh, than than the other
one. Uh, additionally, Saddak has or
Coranolas, I should say, you have a
point of text nature. I should add that
to the overhead display is what your
nature is. Um,
but
um, Coronal has a point of tax nature.
Saddok is currently sick. Tain is
totally fine. Uh Amos is totally fine
but I do believe Amos that you have some
burden. I have two burden. Uh so I do
have uh stigmata right. So currently uh
Amos is kind of um bleeding from his eye
sockets. Uh I think I think that's more
severe than what I have. Okay. Uh I
thought that was a I think uh all right
fine. He has uncontrollable shakes. Um
and uh and then Ber is exhausted and
sick. Um having a rough week.
He's Berber is playing the role of Derek
uh in this uh in this game. I'm doing a
good job at it. Um so, uh we're we're
all set to go there, too. And Ber is
technically level two as well. Um so,
I'll have to update him. If I remember
correctly, the when we got to town,
there is a bonus for correct. So, when
you get to Yeah. So, when you get to
town, you roll on the town event chart.
Um and that can potentially be a a
problem. It could be a bad thing. It
could be a good thing. We got festival
and you guys that they are celebrating
uh a festival. Um they are the remote
village. Yeah. So this
is the festival for the lord of sewing
and the lady of reaping. Uh offering a
prayer at the shrine and uh offer a
prayer at the shrine and gain the
blessings of the immortals. You get plus
one dice to all peasant and steward
tests until the next town phase if you
offer a blessing at the shrine to the
immortals, which this town does have a
shrine. That should be someone's goal
for sure to to to go to the shrine. Now,
I assume Dennis uh uh that yours is
going to be Kurt's body to his parents.
Okay. Right. I'm I'm tempted to pull a
GM Scott and abandon that goal now that
we're at at the one yard line and
Yeah, I think you should. It's the only
logical thing to do. So, um so so if
you're interested in a plus one die
bonus to Pezant and Stewart test, now is
now is the time to offer up Stewart.
Yeah, I honestly have no idea what
Stewart does. You know, Boothby, you're
a uh you consider yourself to be a good
uh role player, but honestly, if you
keep succeeding and fulfilling your
goals, you're going to level or
something. Yeah. And we don't want that.
I don't want that. Yeah. What kind of
peasant are you? I'm going to stay first
level forever.
I mean, you kind of could. It doesn't
really affect you. It's not like you get
more hit points. I mean, you get some
cool abilities later on. Um I mean one
of the big ones for um for Boothby
because he is more uh is he can get more
and so he can he can bear more burden um
by hold more bodies. Yes.
Um but the other one is that when he
gets to level two he can choose militant
um which lets him uh use armor helmets
and an additional type of weapon. So he
can become more of like a like a cleric
where he's like can wear heavy armor and
you know wield all that stuff. So he can
make that choice. effective battle
priest. Uh right, like he could be more
of a of a warrior type and wear armor.
So,
uh you guys need to decide your beliefs,
your instincts if they're changing, and
then uh make sure you set a goal. And
so, let me workshop this belief with you
guys. My belief before was um I
definitely wanted to I do everything
myself. I didn't need the help with
anybody else. And as I've sort of as
we've sort of done this as a party,
that's kind of been going away. sort of
been helping and and and working
ourselves as a team and sort of
believing in ourselves. Uh but I'm not
fully, you know, throw myself in front
of you uh type of belief. So I'm
wondering is there like a midpoint
belief where I went from I don't I'm
going do things by myself but not like
now I'm like not saving the party like
somewhere in the mid am I am I thinking
out out of line here? Do you see what
I'm saying? Like I'm in the middle. I'm
not there
yet. Or should that just not be my
belief? My belief should do something
totally
different. I don't know. That's where
I'm I'm struggling.
Well, I mean, what does Karanolas
believe?
Um, I I I judging by looking at his
character sheet that he believes he
should be this elf eventually and and
retire and and like become an elf and
sail off into the clouds. I mean, if you
believe that uh if you believe that you
know your elven nature is calling you
home, uh you know, like I've been not
I've been acting against it lately. So,
and so I don't know. Um I mean to be
fair, you're you're at five of six. So,
you know, correct. I'm not It's
whatever. But I I I just I know before
it was like very easy. I'm like not very
easy, but I am doing the things my way.
I'm I'm doing things by myself. Well,
that that's that's a way now. So, now
it's what am I now? So, this is sort of
a a torch a torch a torchbearer update.
It's a it's a rule. It hasn't really
mattered or come up, but just an FYI.
Um, you're as you lose nature, uh, as
your nature becomes taxed, the number
before the slash is what you roll. If
you're rolling your nature, uh, if
you're adding your nature because you
challenge your persona, um, you can at
any time basically
accept the tax that your nature has
given you. And when that happens, your
permanent maximum nature drops by one.
So the number after the slash, but then
your nature refills to the
max. So for example, if Bob was at one
of six, he'd be rolling one die. Bob can
just kind of basically kind of say, I'm
not that guy anymore. I'm I'm a
different person. And he would
immediately go from one of six to five
of five. That makes sense. So that's
like the way that your max nature can
shrink, just
FYI. Uh yeah, I don't know. I don't have
a good answer for you, Bob.
It's like I uh
I believe that
there may be like it's like I know
you're saying that it's you're not fully
convinced. Yeah. that they're like they
they may be uh
I mean I think personally less worthy or
worthy of like what what it was that
they are that you can do in your way
that yeah they may have value. I mean I
think it's more interesting and it's
probably easier to to kind of score your
points for your belief when it's a very
like definitive thing. I know that's
where I'm having trouble because it's
not it's not either or. So that's I'm
like maybe I just go in a different
direction for now until I've sort of
changed again and grew. Did any of the
the Guillas uh have any effect on him?
Does did that change his beliefs? Does
he is that purpose of that you you know
that's the finding the harp thing and
proving ourselves worthy or Yeah. Or
it's it's obtaining the the dagger to
kill the dragon. Yeah. Is that killing a
dragon first? So right
and that's a belief that like so so
here's here's something I think about
but remember belief don't don't convoke
don't don't confuse beliefs with goals
you know so like belief has to be like a
a personal philosophy that you have um
that you know you think and also too it
should be a question by the way feel
free of other players like what is
something that you want Bob to answer
because the answer is either they're
going to play to that belief and get
persona points or they're going to play
or sorry fate points or they're going to
play against that belief, changing their
nature or changing their belief, getting
a persona point and sort of continuing
to evolve their character. So, the real
question should be like what what is the
question that we would have about
Coronal? What do you, Bob, what would
you be interested in exploring? Um, you
know, maybe some other players might
think something is interesting or would
want to see you explore it. Maybe you
like that idea. Um, I do like that idea.
So I I think that the teamwork thing is
an interesting point especially what we
just learned is that these ancient elves
created this dagger to slay this dragon
but couldn't seal the deal by
themselves. You know, maybe there is
something where Bob has seen or Duranas
has seen the error
of trying to do things by yourself from
this meta elf nature where you might
have to be part of a team to accomplish
this and a team of us.
Well, correct. But that's why my nature
that's why my belief changed. But like
what is it now? Like seeking out the I
mean like seeking out the friendship of
others is sort of like this weird
thing. I don't know. I'm trying to think
how you'll make a belief out of
fostering teamwork. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
again, I mean, because remember, the way
that you score the fate point is by
taking action in line with your belief.
Um, so, uh, you know, uh, you know, you
you your belief used to be I'm better
off alone. Maybe your belief now is, you
know, my friends will always have my
back or maybe I'll always have my
friends back or my belief is my party is
my family. See, I feel like that's the
next arc. If I get there, maybe I don't.
Well, I don't know if I'm there yet.
Well, no, but that's the point. You're
stating that as your belief, and now we
get to see that you're playing towards
it. And if you do, you earn fate points.
And if you don't, then that belief
doesn't go anywhere. Or you play against
it, and you earn a fate point or a
persona point, and you go, "Nope, turns
out my friends were not my family. I
don't believe that. I think I'm with I
will always have my friends back because
they're not yet my family." Okay, so
there you go. Thank you. Yep. Thank you.
So again, in a way the belief is
aspirational. I'm asking you I'm I'm
asking I'm asking you to step up and and
show us, you know, action. Like belief
is just words. But in order to get the
point, you need to have actions, right?
Because actions speak louder than words.
So yeah, because that's the direction
I'm going. So you're right. Right. Maybe
I don't, but that's the direction I
hypothetically am going. Correct. So now
we get to find out. You get to find out.
Yeah.
Um, so goal for Dennis or Booth Amos.
Did you Are you switching it or you stay
with Kurt's body? I'm sticking with the
return of his body. Ryan, what are you
thinking? Uh, so I I I also had lost my
belief. I assume it's because I went
against it. Is that I earned something
important? So I imag So I also probably
need to So I think it was mine was I'm I
was like the group's cheerleader or or
it was something along that lines or I
like believe in my like it was a
positive. So I think at this point I
think it's like my belief is
that my the group needs my uh needs my
help for them to stay safe.
Like is that is that a belief? Like it's
like it's it's like again you could put
that but I think it's more interesting
when you put the belief as something
that is going to be like a a split in
the road, right? Like um like a belief
might be I'm the most important person
in this group, right? Like you know or
like put something like that. Or my
belief or your belief might be like or
your might your belief might be like uh
the group needs me more than I need
them. Oh, you know like and and again we
we can see do you play to that belief or
not. And so you kind of get this will he
or won't he kind of aspiration. I I see
that I'm going to change I am g I'm
gonna I there is an element of that
where I think the group needs me more
than I need them. There's some
selfishness in his because there was I
think there was some like spat I had
which was the reason why you know also
you ended up getting sick and then you
vomited it out and then you got sick
again immediately you know there might
be a little bit of resentment here you
know now what a sense of taste now what
may end up happening Ryan is through
play sadok may go you know make may
there may be a big moment where you go
no I do need them you know I'm nothing
without them and at the end of this the
session you can make a big deal about it
and say that's why I get a persona point
and that's why I'm a believer has
changed. But so again, the idea of the
person the belief is this is to be
decided and if you follow that belief,
you'll earn fate points, but if you go
against it, you earn persona. And and
then uh for my goal, this is where I was
I wanted to more work workshop this uh
my goal in town is to recover to be to
become uh healthy enough and then um go
back uh get equipment back uh replenish
our resources. So we can go back and
well don't make don't make it hard don't
make it harder on yourself you know. No.
Right. So my my essentially is just is
just to recover. Yeah. You could you
could put that or you could say my goal
is to you know to make sure our packs
are full when we leave town of food and
supplies. You know you could have that
as a goal as well. That's a very
reasonable town goal.
And then uh laughing. What what was your
goal? Uh, well, I'm going to change my
belief. Okay. After last game, I believe
that the party now likes me.
So, so I'm going Of course we do. Okay,
that that's fine. I just want to make
sure. Remember, in order to earn a fate
point, you have to take actions that are
in line with that. So, no matter what it
is, is no matter how mean they are to
me, I'm going to be nice to them because
I know they're having a hard day. Okay.
Okay. Um, I don't know how I'm going to
do that, but that's sort of like the
idea like because like when they were
being nice to me with the ghost, I'm
like, "Oh crap, they actually do like
me." So, it sort of changes the belief
in the dynamics of how this group is
instead of just a bunch of individuals.
So, um, he's I believe that they're
going to like they
is a group is a group of messy is a
group of messy adventurers going on
fantasy adventures having a found family
moment.
I think it's funny that the person that
was like like maybe naively optimistic
is now like h these guys need me and
they're like everyone's like wow
everyone's so nice
I just feel bad them so I'm gonna go out
of my way to like I don't know how to
put that but that appeasing the party.
Yeah like to do extra to help the party
out things kind of stuff like that. Um,
yeah. So, the problem is we already sort
of do that anyways with the aid and
stuff and like Well, right. Well, that's
the thing is is helping and aiding isn't
enough to really count. It's got to be
an action. It really has to be like
something where you're making a check
and you can point to that and say or has
to be a really big important moment of
roleplay and conversation and you know
like where it's not just like guys I
really like you. All right, I did my
thing earned my fate point. No, you you
have you know you have to really kind of
show it. It has to be like except for
like the the
the when I'm having trouble figuring out
how to turn that into gameplay.
I'll figure it out later. Okay. Like not
that big of a deal right now. All right.
Anybody else? Everybody have a goal. Um
I Yeah, I got to change my goal because
um I will find some valuable treasure. I
already did that, right? Well, you could
you could have that as your goal again,
but it might be kind of difficult to do
that in town. So, Exactly. Um my goal is
to sell what we found.
Uh, did you find automatically? We found
we found some coins. Well, you don't
have to sell coins. So,
yeah, that's pretty much it. All right.
Well, then then you don't have to worry
about then you don't have to worry about
selling anything because you guys don't
have anything to sell.
Uh, was going to do recover. Maybe
that's what your focus could be. Yeah,
my goal would be to recover. But then
you both have it. So, if you both No,
no, no. Mine mine is uh to make sure my
packs are full. Oh, okay. So there you
go. My goal is to recover.
And what about you, um, Tain Jim Scott?
Well, my belief, uh, as you mentioned,
was to locate that dagger, but I believe
that we were really far away from it.
So, I changed it to discover what was on
the other side of that door and in that
chamber, which thankfully Wait, you mean
that was your goal? His goal is goal.
Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. Those were my
goals. Um, and uh, so I did accomplish
that goal. So, I need a new goal and I
think I'm choosing I must write scrolls
of ethereal premonition. All right,
perfect. As my goal. Uh, but my belief
also was changed. Uh, my belief was that
I didn't uh need the party. Um, and so
then I at the end I realized I did need
them, right? Because I struck out on my
own and then missed the whole session.
So,
um, when I got back I'm like, "Yeah, I
guess I do really need you guys." So, my
belief now is my reliance on others
highlights my the weakness in my magic.
When I gain enough power, I will no
longer need them. All right, perfect.
I'm a low-level mage. I have D4 hit
points. I need these guys a little bit
longer until I can, you know, cast them
down with arcane fire and bolts of bolts
of fire for my eyes and lightning for my
ass. Um, that's about it. Perfect. Oh,
yes. The only thing is my goal and I I'm
debating whether to just uh have the
goal is get back to the dungeon. Um, or
something more. I mean, that that could
be if you guys think you can take care
of the town and then make the Pathfinder
checks to get back to dungeon. That
could be a great You're like your goal
could be I want to wrap up I want to
wrap up a town quickly to get back to
the dungeon before vest, you know, like
Oh. Oh, yeah. That's actually a good
point. Um, you had said earlier that we
do not have a known path from correct
the dungeon to here. So, you have you
have to path find your way back.
Correct. Should can I make a cgrapher's
pack in town? You can. And it's that's
personal business. And then we'll
increase one lifestyle. And that is plus
one lifestyle. Yep. All right. Let's go
with that. I was going to have it find a
prostitute, but I think I'm going to go
with the uh I'm going to go with that
also be a goal, too. Someone needs to
find the prostitute. The ghost. The
ghost expects it. Part of our day,
right? That's what I was thinking. Like
the goal is I was kind of burdened with
some, you know, proving myself.
Hey, Bob. My wife when he said it's
like, wow, really?
It's not me. It's it's carnal. He's he's
he's role playing. Okay. It's maybe what
my character We are definitely cringe,
but that doesn't mean that uh that it's
a bad thing. Um what my character would
do, Bob? Yes, exactly. I figured out my
belief. Um the town should know how
great my friends are as as I do. So,
you're going to go um Oh, talk us up.
Yeah, you're gonna talk us up. That's
your goal or your belief? That's my
belief. So, your belief is only for in
town. You can you can change your belief
every session if you want. Oh, okay.
Yeah, because I believe that we um never
leave a do a dungeon empty-handed. Well,
we didn't leave a dungeon empty-handed
and came back with a headless. You got
to let everyone know about it.
Yeah. Now, we got to make sure everybody
knows how great you guys are. And my
goal is to just recover because I'm sick
of being sick. Yeah. I mean, your belief
could be, you know, we're the greatest
and everyone should know it. I mean,
that Yeah. It could be more broad than
that. Yeah. Um, I like that if like we
end up because we almost did that last
session when we were talking to the
ghost and we were like, "No, no, we're
awesome." And if we ever find the
ratman. Yes. Uh, so you guys are in
town. You guys are in a remote village
and the available locations are the
streets, the stables, a tavern, the
shrine, personal homes, and a very small
marketplace.
Uh did we not sorry to cut you off but
just was wondering you said you we you
had done the math and we actually hit
town before the other group did. Right.
Correct. That's correct. Okay. Which is
why their efforts to uh discredit you
and make you look bad. Won't affect you
right now.
Good thing we're good. We got a hype
man. Damn it. That was my plan.
Well, you could do it. But I did. I got
a plan. Why would you want to discredit
us? I can't. Oh, because well, let me
actually be vest wants to discredit
Karmos. That checks out. Uh, but to be
fair, I can't I don't have a time
machine, so I can't go back in that. Um,
so those locations are available to you
guys. Uh, if it's not if it's if it's
not, then the only other option that you
can do is you can ask around, you can do
research, you can uh build uh kit or
items, you can go visiting if you have
relations or friends in town, you can
conduct personal business, or you can
try to find someone. So the now the
other thing that you can do here what
you should be doing is strategizing. So
uh in town we don't really worry too
much about your slots. Not until you
leave town does that matter. I should
also note if you leave town and you have
no
conditions and your nature is
untaxed and you make the final check to
pay your bill
successfully, you regain the fresh
condition.
Um, so that being said, in town, we
don't really too much worry about your
inventory. So, a good idea potentially
is to move your guys' money into the
town screen so that you guys can kind of
understand how much money you have to
work with. Um, now, of course, remember
some of you have personal items, uh,
personal money stashes, which you may or
may not want to include in the group,
uh, pile. So, uh, that might be, uh,
something that you want to save back cuz
some of you have personal items. Some of
you have, uh, your personal stash. I saw
somebody moved their personal stash onto
the Yep.
Well, uh, Saddak believes they need his
personal stash. Ah, okay. Okay. Okay.
They're too broke without me.
All right. So, Saddak is throwing in his
own personal stash of two gold. Um, but
uh you know Amos Herber, you guys have
your personal gold or some of you may
have a trinket from your family keepsake
that could also potentially if in a
pinch serve as a as a means of gold. So
with that being said, uh it looks like
you guys are working
with I I'll put it I'll put it only need
Yeah, I say so you guys have two. Now
the good news is this is all gold which
means it's fungeible. You can break it
up into chunks. If you had say a gem
worth six dice of gold, uh you you can't
break that up. You have to spend all six
dice on one roll. Uh but you guys have
gold. So you can split up. So you have 2
4 6 8 10 and then 11 12 13. So total you
have 13 dice of treasure. Now keep in
mind a couple of things. Most of you
have a resources of zero. This means
you're not even allowed to make a check.
So if the lifestyle that you acrew is
the ob, and this is very important to
understand, the lifestyle that you acrew
is the ob of the resources check that
you'll have to make. Each treasure that
you spend on that will give you a bonus
of one die, two die, three die, four
die, depending on how much you make.
Here's the good news. If you fail a
resources
check, the amount of treasure you spent
on that check protects you from what's
called tax. Tax is the difference
between what you rolled and what you
needed to roll. So, for example, let's
say that the OB was four and you roll
you you spend three dice of treasure.
So, you roll three dice and you only get
two successes. So you failed by
two, but you spent three dice of
treasure. So three dice of treasure will
protect you from failure, you know, like
conditions, twists. It'll it'll
basically absorb the difference between
what you uh needed and what you spent.
Basically, when you're making a
resources check, think of it more like
you're you're getting it on credit. And
they basically said, "Your credit's not
good enough." And you go, "It's fine.
I've got cash." And they go, "Okay, you
know, that's cool." like uh you know
we're not necessarily going to extend
your line of credit but you covered your
bill and you won't get penalized for it.
Now if you don't have enough treasure to
cover the distance difference between
your failure and what you needed like
let's say let's say that the you spent
you you run up a bill and your ob is
nine and then you go and you only spend
three dice of treasure or you know one
dice of treasure and you're like well I
got one success. I'm like okay well you
failed by eight and you're like uh okay
well then then there's going to be
consequences. They might run you out of
town. They might exile you. They might
banish you. They might tar and feather
you. They might say, "You and your
friends are never welcome here again."
Uh, etc., etc., etc. Your your credit
score might go down. So, be be aware
that uh when you when you're in that
situation. Now, Berber does have one
resources. So, Berber is allowed to make
a check without having to spend money,
but he only gets to roll one die, just
FYI.
So, first things first,
um, one of the things that you can do
here, uh, is when you're in town is you
can choose to stay at the tavern or
sleep on the streets or sleep in a flop
house.
A Here we go. Um, Sleepy on the Streets
is free. Sleeping in the stables
increases your lifestyle by one.
Sleeping in the flop house increases
your lifestyle by one. Um, you get a
free recovery
um for staying in the stables or the uh
the flop house. You can recover from
angry, afraid, exhausted, and injured,
but not sick.
Is there any way to recover from sick in
this town? You would probably have to go
and find a healer who can try to heal
and recover your sickness.
Cool.
That would be a task. Doesn't bother me.
That would be a find someone task.
Sedak,
I believe this is uh where Ma and P
Sheepscar live. Now Amos, you we we've
never really decided this is but you is
your home remote village? It is remote
village. Okay, that's awesome. Okay, so
in that so in that case uh booth yes in
that case banner across the main the
main highway saying welcome back. Uh
right, right. It's like yeah like he's
coming home from war. Um however, so
that costs zero. Okay, that you can stay
with them for free. However, we need to
roll Booth B to decide what kind of um
uh what kind of like uh living they have
here. Uh see the relationships in town
heading of this chapter. Here we go.
Relationships in town. I got to find
it. Paying your bills. Okay. Parents.
Um, uh, a car a character's parents live
in their hometown unless they work the
same trade as your hometown skill, which
I believe is peasant,
right? Uh, parents annoyingly have the
same hometown trait as their progyny.
Parents are busy trying to keep their
heads above water. Parents are always
privately worried about their children.
Uh, when paying staying with their
parents, characters do not have to pay
for room board. Instead, they pay a tax
of quarrelless glances, inquiries about
the stains on their undergarments, an
investigation into their packs, and
whether they are getting married soon.
Uh, when visiting a character's parents
home for the first time, roll a d6,
booby, and note the result. The old
place isn't quite like you remember it.
So, let's see how they Let's see how
your parents take my room and put it in
the trophy room. You can never go home.
You can never go home. Uh, okay. It's a
four. Okay. Your parents house has the
equivalent status of a flop house. Oh,
so at least it's not stables, which
probably would have made sense as a
peasant. They're like, "Yeah, we've got
a we've got a corner for you to sleep
in." Um parents will provide according
to the accommodation rules. Venturers
may store a cash with their parents. So
you can store items with your parents.
They will also provide body. Yeah. Uh
they will also provide you Booth B with
reasonable small craft or trade items
that could be generated with their
skill. Doing so will eat into their
livelihood. But no, no, you take it with
you. You need
it. Jeez.
With two silver pieces. It'll be fine.
Um, okay. So, booth B. So, because your
parents house essentially uh is treated
as a uh is treated as a uh flop house.
Um, the cost is free. You get one free
recovery test and you can rec uh Okay.
Well, then then you don't have to worry
about it at all.
Well, I don't need that, but yeah.
Okay.
Uh Okay.
Uh, you get one free recovery test. You
may make an additional recovery test
during your stay at your expense. You
can attempt to recover from all
condition except sick, but you're you're
staying with home, so that's fine. All
right. Uh, everybody else, let me This
is your This is guy. This is your turn
to strategize. What do you need?
Remember, you've got money to spend. You
can use it to refill your packs. You may
need food. You may need additional
stuff. The market kind of sucks. It's
not going to have plate mail, but maybe
you can get up a few new items if you
would need something. Um, I'm thinking
we need torches, Saddak. That's what I'm
thinking.
You should also dump off this body.
Look, you do what you got to do. Well, I
got to carry it. Hey, Boothby, by the
way. Um, carry it. Can Can your friends
come and hang out with you at your
house? Oh, no, no, no. There's barely
enough room for you, Dennis. Oh, man. I
mean, if your parents lived in like the
palatial hotel, if that had been their
thing, it's like, oh, they were the
grand peasants. Turns out they're the
mayors of this town, then maybe I might
let your friends stay. But no. Yeah. So,
uh, for Saddok, they don't approve of
your lifestyle. I would have to have
friends. That's true. Uh, for Saddok,
uh, his priorities is to find someone to
recover from sick. Okay. Uh, then to
refill rations, water, and torches um
for the group. Uh, and then,
uh, if there's if time and it feels
confident, then to get a helmet, but
that's not
okay. And I don't I I don't have this uh
I think I got rid of my
uh garlic. I think I used it. Okay. I
still have it. Yeah. My big thing is to
get to the shrine to purify myself
so I can stop shaking. Uh also, uh as
FYI, when you're about to leave town, um
everyone can refill all containers uh
liquid containers with water for free.
Not wine. Not wine. You could buy wine.
Dang.
Uh so I I definitely want to go to the
shrine as well and but then and then uh
secondarily uh definitely get torches
and food. That's Yeah, then at that
point it would be uh uh torches and then
rations. Well, let's rations then
torches for me. So then
So then Amos, do you want to drop off
his body first or do you want to drop
the shrine? Drop the body first. All
right. no reason to carry it around in
town. I'll go I'll go I'll I'll I'll go
with um with Amos and I assume Berber as
well. Now, I don't I don't want to
complicate this, okay, for you guys, but
realize that you could also do stuff in
town like you could go conduct personal
business and Karanas could for example
maybe go hunt or
forage for food and rations. Mhm. Now
that won't cost you money to buy the
rations, but it would cost you lifestyle
and it but it would also mean Coronal is
making checks and getting passes and
failures and accumulating successes,
etc., etc., etc. But there's no there's
no um the turn in town. Nope. Nope. No
turn, no grind. Well, I heard free food
is around in the wilderness. Okay. But
but everything you do costs money.
Um, so we've been going hunting would
cost Oh, that's conducting personal
hunting cost. That's conducting personal
business plus one. Plus one lifestyle.
Just remember when you go out hunting on
property. Now, now Bob, if your if your
instinct had said whenever I get into
town, I always go hunting, then it would
be free. Oh, fair. But it's it's it'd be
a check anyway if we were buying food.
So, at that point,
no. So, buying food uh is zero life or
buying items is zero lifestyle.
Okay. So, what's the benefit of hunting
then? Well, the benefit of hunting is
depends on what you're what you're
trying to buy and what you're trying to
succeed. You might fail to buy rations.
Gotcha. Also, your resources is zero.
So, you're going to have to spend some
of your gold and treasure just to even
make that check. Mhm. So, it costs them.
Yeah. So, when you go to when you go to
the market, they need they need cash on
demand. Yeah. They don't have any
credit. Yeah. They don't have any credit
at the market. Yeah. like the hotel and
like you know the other places they'll
they'll they'll settle out when you
leave town, but at the marketplace you
have to pay right there on the spot. All
right, I'm going I'm going to go out and
look for some Pumba.
That's not the That's not the
prostitute.
Sorry. Going for a workout. All right,
so uh I'm going to have I'm gonna have
everybody So your taste I'm gonna have
every I'm gonna have everybody keep
track of this. So Bob, your lifestyle
cost is going to go up by one. Where do
I put that? Just work on a piece of
paper. On a piece of paper. That's just
double checking. I'm like, if there's
something on here I missed again. No. Uh
find it. No, actually here. Here. I'll
do this. Write it down. Write it on your
arm. No, I'll just I'll just do it in
me. I'll just do I'll just do this.
C visible to We need to definitely keep
track of how much gold we have compared
to what we're trying to do so we don't
overstep what we have. All right. So
there, Bob, you have one point of
lifestyle. That's one. I put on your
character or I put on your guy and and
uh finding someone would require one
lifestyle as well. Yep. I believe
finding someone is finding one
lifestyle. If we find somebody and we're
both sick, can we would we both get one
lifestyle? And if we both Because if he
finds someone, then you don't need to
Okay. You don't need to worry about it
because he found silver coin because the
gold is too deep too die. There's no
popup for the silver coins.
Oh, there's not. No. And that lint's got
to be worth something. I've been
carrying it from the freaking No way.
No, it's definitely
not. Uh, silver's worth one. Okay.
Should have said that.
There you go. And then the bag of the
bag of coins that we have from our life,
those are
also sold just like regular coins or
Yep. It's It's literally a bag of coins.
Yeah. So, it's Yeah. and only is only
used if you elect to. So, right now, if
it's in stays on, you use your personal
stuff. I'm electing to provide mine. Um,
now, well, hold on a sec. Bob is going
hunting. Oh. Oh. Okay. Or Bob, are you
going hunting or are you going
scavenging? No, I want I want an animal.
You're going hunting? Hunting. All
right, Bob.
I don't know if I'm going to succeed.
The scavenging probably was better, but
uh going hunting. Um Okay. So, uh, are
you so you're, uh, trying to,
uh, oh, I blend in with the wilderness
around.
And I've known my fair share in my days
being a loner that, uh, you know, how to
how to live off the land. What do you
want to try to What do you want to try
to hunt? Is there like a warthog? Uh,
wild wild hog. Wild pig. I want a wild
pig. All right. So Bob, you're going to
make a hunter test. This is going to be
an ambush. It's your hunter versus his
nature.
Hunter versus its nature. So versus Yep.
So you're going to make a hunter check.
Okay. What's
the What's its nature, I guess. Great
question.
Uh let's see. Uh it's a giant
pig. So I'm going to say its equivalent.
I'm gonna say its nature
is it's not four. It's a it's a it's a
nasty beast. We're gonna say its nature
is three. Oh boy. Okay. So, two versus
three. Yes. Um can I tap in do you think
to my loner ability since I am going to
do this on my own? You can. Yeah,
absolutely. Okay. So, this I need it for
me. Beneficial use. Correct.
Okay. So, for me, yes. Plus one D. Um,
I'm doing this all
myself.
Persona, I think it's just 3v3.
All right. If you have two dice of
hunter, that's that is that's it. Yep.
3v3. Here we go. What are you using to
hunt? Oh, I have my arrows. All right.
Well, then you have you have a you have
a gear die. I get a gear die. Where's
that? Gear dice is plus one. Yep. Okay.
Doesn't say anything else for hunting,
does it? Special. No, that's just for
the armor.
Um, so so okay. Yep. All right. Here we
go. Four verse three.
Hey. All right, Bob. So, come here,
Pumba. So, you go out and you hunt down
uh a a hog. Yeah, I did. And bring it
back. Um, yeah, I did. with uh with with
great skill and and and thunderous
thunderous applause. You come back with
the you know that scene from Robin Hood
Men and Tights where he comes in with
the the the big bore over his should how
I'm imagining it over his shoulder and
uh Bob that
generates three stacks of fresh rations.
Yeah. Wow. Nice. It was a good It was a
good size hog. Now remember fresh
rations these I mean obviously it looks
like loaves of bread and cheese but
basically means fresh food and so the
next time you guys go to town all that
rations rots and you have to get rid of
it but there is something you can do
with cook where you can turn those into
preserved rations but we need a cook.
Um okay look at his face he's like uh oh
okay Bob so you come back you've got you
got three stacks of pig meat. I'm not
I'm not making a custom token for pig
meat, but we we all know that it's
pigeon's over. Well, destroy my
immersion there. I'm sorry. What are we
even doing here? Yeah. What are we even
doing? If this is just like the VTT
thing all over again. If it's not if the
if the if the pixel art token isn't a
pig meat, what are we even doing here?
You know what? Fine. [ __ ] you guys.
Chop. How about that? Bacon.
So, and I have to icons. That's a pass.
So, I am one pass. Okay. Yep. Sweet.
I
got challenged in a way like that and it
resulted in me getting Taco Bell nuggets
for the office cuz my I was
challenged. It's the pig meat icon of
All right. So, what else is anybody
doing? So, uh what what goes into
finding someone? What is that? That is a
circles test.
So it increases your lifestyle
uh by one and
uh if the adventurers want to search for
a specific person in the settlement,
make a circles test. So you are trying
to find an adventurer who is uh lower
level than you and willing to listen,
willing to help you for a price or loyal
to your cause.
Oh, is well to heal
uh willing to listen I guess. Well, so
willing to listen means that that you
know maybe you have to make a a check or
you know that they're you know I mean
it's very easy to find someone who's
willing to listen to you but if you're
trying to find someone that you can hire
then that might cost that that's going
to be uh a little bit harder. Yeah.
What's uh uh Urb circle?
Uh my circles are that
[Music]
um I have my parents, of course. I got a
friend and No, no, it's it's a value.
Oh, I'm sorry. My bad. Uh circle four.
So, same.
Yeah, we don't really have I imagine we
have to do some haggling here to get him
to heal us.
that or persuasion manipulation.
I mean, yeah. I mean, all all these
things are potential options. You're
just trying to see if you can find
somebody circle. Yeah. I'm just trying
to just decide. Um we we both want the
same goal. So, I'm just wondering see
who's the more
fit. Who do you think you think is more
s
I mean, it's a hit or it's both of us.
So, I mean, I could help you maybe.
Why do you think you might be more um
uh a you might be better at haggling,
right? Well, I have I don't have
haggler, but I have negotiator as a
nature, which is a four. So, yeah. And I
also got manipulator at two. Uhhuh. I
have I have uh haggler at two. Uh I
mean, if you're I I'll do it. Well, then
I don't ah sat doesn't need you need you
need saddakel.
Uh, well, remember too, you you can help
people in town. Yeah. I mean, with with
checks.
And then I got the shrewd dwarf. Would
that help out at all from the second
level? The hag haggler haggler test
during the talent phase without raising
your life cost. That's if you go and do
the haggling activity, which is
something specific that you do at the
marketplace. So, I have a question.
Yeah. I have healer at three. Yep.
Can I treat them in town? You sure can.
Now, it'll increase your lifestyle cost,
but
yes, you can. It would increase mine
because I'm making the check. Correct.
But you're also not paying for a room to
play stay at. Well, you could also make
them give you more money. But I mean,
yeah, they they they go asking around
town. Well, the best healer in town is
Amos Shepskar. I hear he's back in town
today.
Oh, I'm I'm going to go full height,
man, too. I'm going to be talking mad.
Well, I mean, that's a decision that you
guys should make before you start making
checks to find a healer is that, you
know, they're like, "Oh, actually, he
left." Oh, wait. He's back. It's it's
it's the same guy that you guys came
into town with. Well, what what
what how can uh Saddok help uh Amos with
their lifestyle so that you know I can't
I I can raise my what? I I can raise my
lifestyle to do help us something that
would I guess I don't need you for
nothing.
You do.
[Music]
Uh what was the exact question? Well,
essentially um if he if he's going to if
potentially he's going to raise his
lifestyle to heal us, then I would try
and do something that could would
benefit him, which I at this point would
probably be torches and stuff like that.
Get raise, right? Make sure we have all
of our gohead our um
backpacks are full. Make sure our
equipment there because we have some
food which is one the first thing on the
list. So now it's torches. So that's
what Saddak wants to do is get
torches and and also to help and
convince Amos to help. All right, I can
try it. I'm gonna rack up some lifestyle
cost in town. Yeah, go for it. I got the
money for you. All right, so Amos, what
are you doing?
The doctor is in.
Um, yeah, just remember my name is sheep
scar, not sheep surgeon.
All right. So, you are going to try to
treat someone's illness, correct? Yes.
Just like the sheep I normally operate
on, right? All right. Uh, do you have
shave them bald first? All right.
Naturally, collect. So, who are we doing
first? I'm going to get gold.
[Music]
Uh, well, we can do uh Saddak. Okay,
Saddak. All right. So, uh, is anyone
helping you?
Uh, does anyone have anything that can
help? Survival. Survivalist and
alchemist can help you. I assume I'm in
the wilderness at this point. No, I have
al alchemist. Time doesn't matter.
I have alchemist. I can gather herbs or
specific patches of mold and dirt from
the ground. That would help. I was going
to say on the way back from my uh
hunting expedition, I did find some um
some of this aloe type material that can
be rubbed on the wounds. Okay. Could I
use scavenger? Like I'm scavenging up
bandages and other things along those
lines. So that is not an allowable one.
However, I am allowed to add one skill
to each check that you can help with.
And I think that's a great example.
You're in town. it makes sense that you
could maybe find some some some stuff
that they could use. So, uh I will let
you help with that. So, yeah,
survivalist can help with this along I'm
sorry. Survivalist, scavenger, and
alchemist can all help with this check.
And I'd like to use a fate point in case
he succeeds. Well, it's succeed or fail.
You get the improvement. No. Yeah, but I
mean, you know what I mean. Yeah. You're
going to synergize. Yeah. Yeah, that's
it. Okay. Yep. Spend spend the faith
point. Is now can I help? Even though
I'm the one it's being done to. If you
can describe it in a way that makes
sense in the fiction. Yeah. Salt the
wound. Cuz the scavenging is what I
have.
You you got to you convince me, Ryan.
I'm I'm I'm waiting to be convinced.
Um otherwise, you might just have to
take a knee on this one. Yeah, I'll just
take a knee because the only thing I can
help with is scavenging. And I feel I
feel like if you know he's off helping
uh I'm I'm the one waiting. Yep. So
uh Oh, unfortunately I just realized uh
Ryan, you're sick from poison, aren't
you?
Uh yes. Okay, it is ob six booofy. Oh my
gosh.
Might just be worth just dropping a
freaking So to synergize, it's a fate
point. Yep. And then what will happen if
he fails? You will mark whatever skill
you helped with of failing survivalist.
You'll if I fill them all up, it goes
up. It go You erase all the points and
then it goes up. I'm going to spend a
fate point as well then. He's like six.
Oh, I'm in. I'm
six. How many dice do you actually have?
I need a failure. Uh so I have How much
help? Sounds like you have three dice of
help. Yeah. Now, good. Do you have any
uh medicinal herbs, minerals, or
bandages as a consumable supply? No. No.
Okay.
Put some pocket line on it. There you
go. Well, remember it's not it's not an
injury. It's sick. You'd be like feeding
it to them. Yeah. Eat this. It make you
feel better. He throws up. Turns out it
was charcoal the whole time. Right. I
have some charcoal. Do you? Right. Yeah.
Oh, well, hell yeah. Charcoal would be
great. You know, it's like you make them
eat the charcoal to charcoal filter to
purge it. As long as I get some of that
charcoal, too. Here's a question. Sorry.
You only have a lump of charcoal pack
one. Who's getting it? Are you using it?
Are you saving it for yourself, Herber,
or are you giving it to your friends?
No, I can't hear this.
There. There's my belief right there.
Ah, [ __ ] All right. So, so the the the
char you literally do have a lump of
charcoal in your pack. So, Booth B, you
can use that. can consume that to add
one point uh one die of gear. Gear.
Yeah. Right. Or actually supplies, but
yeah. How many since you're poisoned,
did you try wretching for a turn or two?
I I I mean I' I'm familiar with those
poisons and it's affected me greatly. I
my my senses are my cook, you know, I'm
not the cook I was when I entered.
All right. So,
uh OB six, huh? Yeah. How many dice you
got? Seven.
O. All right, here we go. In that
failure. Go for it.
I see a couple ones.
Um, do you have any do you have any
wises that you want to use? Uh, Amos or
uh Unless he's a demon. He is not. You
have a six in there. Yeah, but that's
not that's not going to do anything.
That's not going to give you four
successes. All right. Um, I got a wise.
I don't know if it would work. The wise
of that temple. Maybe I could use it for
No, that's only for the person who's
doing it. Gotcha.
Um, all right.
Um, if the healer fails this test,
remove the condition and permanently
reduce by minus one die the patient's
will, nature, or a will-based skill of
the GM's choosing. That would be me
again. Sounds familiar. Um, all right.
So, Saddok, uh, well, it's a brutal
brutal healing. Um, and they,
uh, yeah, they, you know what, Saddok,
this is not the life of a halfling. Uh,
so I'm going to say that your nature
goes down by one,
but we have purged the poison. Is it
attached? No, it is. It is permanently
reduced by one. Oh, watching you has
made me realize how much of a
survivalist I am.
So you you must have one. You've grown.
So change that to change that to four or
four. Yeah. Okay. Um and reduce remove
all your passes from it. Oh, it's going
up.
You have to hit the X. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Do I have to pick up any rolls,
Derek, when I fill out that survival
thing or just automatically goes up one?
It's just so you increase the rating, go
to edit screen, increase the rating by
one, and then clear the passes and
fails. And then that's it. Survival is
three now. I think uh Boothy mark a
failure for your heal. Yep.
But look at the good news, Ryan. Now,
you only need four checks in order to
get your beginner's locks up.
So, I think I might just unless booth B
wants to maybe get a fail for healing. I
might just wretch anyways because that's
for free. That's true. buy the same
thing.
Yeah, you could do that. Now, can I even
heal his sickening because he's
exhausted still? No, you can do healer
out of a recovery order. Okay.
Well, Bofy maybe wants another failure.
I don't know. Maybe he wants to stack up
failures. I mean, this is how you get
better at healing is working on really
difficult virulent poisons. you know,
and at least it's in in town instead of
like in the middle of some kind of weird
godforsaken thing we're doing in the in
the um dungeon. Correct. I can try it
again. Up to you. So, this would
increase the lifestyle. This would this
would increase his lifestyle by one
again. So, he's at two. Yeah. All right.
Amos, I will help this time. I'll help,
but uh I'm not doing the fate point.
Same thing. the herbs maybe they weren't
the those herbs are weren't for place
you talk about now you need you need you
need more now you need a bunch of
failures again Bob so it's it's a it's a
it's a fate point to to synergize yeah
and then if if Boothy passes yeah he
gets that right because now I'm only six
dice versus op six all right well the
good news is here is the ob is only
going to be five booby well because it's
the same poison and so you're you've
gotten some experience with it at this
point so it's a little bit easier that's
a GM GM factor I can OBS go up or down
by one depending on the fiction and in
this case I think it's a little bit
easier. Not that it's that much that
thing. Now there's no charcoal that is
gone. Um but I can if I can still aid
the same way, right? Collecting more.
Yeah. Yeah.
Three helps. Yep. Three helps. Can I aid
or no? If you can make it work in the
fiction.
I grabbing I already scavenged a bunch
of crap. So if we had extra. Fair
enough. All right. He he already got it
before he worked on Ryan. So
I stocked up. I went to Costco. Damn it.
He secretly didn't give you all the
charcoal. He saved a little bit for
himself. Uh so yeah, that's four dice um
of help. And there you go.
Oh [ __ ]
Any sixes there? I got a couple sixes.
You got one six. It looks like you got
one six. Two. Oh no, the other one's for
the other dice, I think. No, it's just
one six. No, y'all. It's a 50/50 chance,
Booth B, that it'll be a it'll be a a a
four, five, or a six. Hey, if you spend
it now, then upgrade up level. I closed
my Okay. Uh, so I is this is luck. Luck.
Yep.
Is this what you need to spend to up to
level up? So, I have one six. Yep. Yeah.
If you like hover over it's it's sort of
like a weird the the Yeah. If you hover
over the number that's rolled dice are a
little wonky.
Yeah. Who Who's using the 3D dice? My
god. All of us.
Wait. Raise your hand if you're using
the 3D dice. Oh, I said all of us. I'm
also raising my hand. Oh, my hand is not
Get rid of it. Oh, I turned that [ __ ]
off immediately. Oh, no. Oh, no bonus
successes. You rolled a two. Okay.
I got to have the 3D dice. It aids in my
immersion. Uh, right. Of course. I'm at
the table. Uh, booby mark another
failure. Uh, Berber, get rid of your
sickening. Um, and ber,
can I can I throw something in there on
like take off? Nope. It's my call. I
know. I figured that was it was out of
my nature. I'm glad I was successful,
you know. Yes. You're trying to
negotiate with the GM. No, no, no. This
is my decision.
Um, but you know, you're in town. I
don't I don't want to like I don't want
to penalize you too much. All right. Uh,
your ortor skill ber is uh affected as
the sickness has made you it's like you
have uh the brain fog from COVID. You
just you know you you just you can't
talk as well as you used to. You get a
little bit more tongue tied. So uh your
orator skill uh goes from two to one.
Cool. So I'm reducing that. There you
go. Okay.
All right. Hey, that ain't bad. I just
got to get one pass then. That's true.
Go back up to two.
All right. Uh, so Booth B, you have
failed to heal this virulent poison, but
you've gotten a lot of experience with
it. They are unsickened. So, it was a
successful treatment. That's right.
That's right. Um, and most importantly,
uh, you uh you only need a couple passes
now. You got your failures all taken
care of.
Let him rip up our paper cuts. Yeah,
right. You're like, "Guys, go get Can
you go get like Yeah, like a sprained
ankle or something." Minor wounds would
be good.
Um, okay. Well, uh, continue. When, uh,
you know, the ancient dragon poison you,
you know, really starts you up here. So,
when they get the minor wounds, you'll
be prepared. Correct.
Should we go uh drop off Curt's body?
Yes.
Okay.
Uh Amos. Yes. Uh you guys need to
find him. Uh Amos looking for someone.
No, cuz Amos is from this town. So I was
say there's a there's a poster literally
said, "Please find my child." Right.
Right. All right. Um the peasants uh
family of Kurt are overwhelmed and
saddened by the return of their son's
body. They break down the wife, the wife
in hysterics, the the husband uh
comforting her, the children deeply
saddened. Uh they they try to make sense
of it all in the greater context of
things. And they they claim that there
is some great evil here at work and that
uh that horrible horrible location. They
told Kurt time and time again to stay
away from it, but he couldn't help
himself. They are distraught and forever
forever forever broken. However, uh
Amos, they do offer you their uh
services such as they are. Uh Amos'
family become your friends. So, you can
put this on your friends tab.
Kurt's family, you mean? I'm sorry.
Kurt's family. Yeah, I'm sorry. Amos'
family may not be your friends. Um
for every one of us or just No. Oh, no.
Just for Amos. That's what I thought. I
was like, wait a second.
Um he's a he's a fellow peasant. Anyone
who has the peasant
skill? All right. Just him.
He's got enough for all of us. I am the
best. I just realized me and Matt
pointed at the screen.
Um, I'm around a table with you guys.
That's my
camera doesn't work. I'll say I didn't
do it either. You can do you can do
points booth. They are uh they are uh
weavers. Oh. Oh, really? Mhm.
I wonder if they could do anything with
my spiderweb.
Uh maybe I thought about making a rope,
but if there's anything like like a
spiderweb cloak, but that's kind of what
I did at Origins. Um
that's a moral spiderweb cloak to the
dark god. They say that if you uh if you
can bring them the right supplies, they
can try to weave this ancient strange
giant spider silk into a rope of
unparalleled quality. Nice. However, it
will require some supplies from uh the
uh from the from the marketplace.
Okay. And it uh it will require some
uh some some some thread and some
material, some additional material.
Seems worth it as long as it'll hold us.
Yeah, we have problems with ropes in
their quality. Yes. Uh and what it will
actually create booth be it'll it will
create a rope. Uh but it will and it'll
be the same rope. It'll be 50 ft of
rope, but it will only take up one slot
instead of two in the backpack. That's
nice. That's a big deal. Yeah, because
it'll be made of spider silk instead of
thick hemp. Keep in mind, this isn't
normal spider silk. This is from a giant
giant spider.
Yeah, they'll help you out for free. Did
the Did that increase the lifestyle or
No. Nope. Cool. Nope. These are friends
helping out a friend. Now, granted, you
do have to you have to go you do have to
go buy the material. That doesn't
increase. Do we want to go to the temple
or to the market? Well, you can do
whatever you want in whatever order you
want. It's I want to go to the temple.
You can do whatever you want as long as
the shrine. So, I feel like I should
follow this. You know, you're not even
as a party group. You're not even You're
not even together. I think we can all do
this. You can all do everything you
want. Anything at any time. Bob, what's
the what would be the benefit for like
you going to the temple since you're not
like a major thumb? Um, no. I'm not I'm
more uh RP going to the temple. Got it.
FP. Well, there's no temple. So, there's
a shrine. Sorry. the shrine for the
festival. Just something that I feel
like the elf would would do to honor
honor these gods and stuff like that.
All right.
Um, does the going to the market does
that cost a lifestyle? No. Lifestyle is
zero to go to the market. Okay.
Yeah. What is at the market anyways?
Because it's a smaller town. So what?
Yeah, it's a smaller town. So they
basically have everything in the
equipment guide that is OB 2 or cheaper.
You know, I would like to actually um
start hype manning us up about bringing
Kirk's body back and how great everybody
is because maybe that can get us a lower
um lower cut or lower price on items
before we start buying them. So then are
you trying to haggle at the market?
Well, it's like so like let's you know
you're at the bar. Oh yeah, these
adventures came in. All that is that is
that is the telling tales thing and that
is its own thing in town. Is it? Yep.
Yeah. All right. Still sounds You want
to go to the tavern and tell tale tell
tall tales? I also want to tell tales of
the other group of adventurers since
they left the body there. I want to say
that they killed the boy, robbed him,
and left him in the hole. Okay. So,
you're doing a little bit of lying. All
right. Okay. All right. So, they left
the headless boy in a hole. That I'm I'm
I'm not okay with that. You know what
the best part is? This is a great This
is a great chance for you, you ready?
All right, Ber. I'm racing I'm
increasing your lifestyle by one. Okay.
Okay. Um reset. Here we go.
Um here we go. Um adventurers could tell
tell true or outrageous tales of their
spectacular adventures in the tavern to
win the respect and agilation of the
clientele. The locals are always hungry
for new stories. Make an orator test.
You can get your level two back. But the
good news but the good news is in like
the dwarven halls it is ob five to tell
tales and impress the dwarves with your
your your stories. But here in a remote
village it is only ob two. Now of course
that means you cannot succeed because
you're only rolling one dice. Uh but
maybe people can help you. Maybe uh
maybe your crew can uh support your
stories. Uh
yes. I can I as a peasant I want to
complain about the other party and their
actions. Hell yes.
I knew you like me. I knew you were my
friend and I am going to spend a fake
point. Okay. Fant fantastic. All right.
Yeah. So, Booth B's in the back with all
the other peasants and he's just like,
"Ah, the no good." You know, ever since
they moved in, the neighborhood's gone
downhill. And, you know, they they don't
mow their lawn. You know, look at that
thing. It's just full of Where's the
scythe? You know, I I had to start scing
the lawn when I was eight. My dad made
me start doing it when I was
eight. Um but then he'd always come out
and [ __ ] and say, "Oh, you're not doing
it right." and then he take the sightes
from me and start doing and it's like
why don't you do it yourself you know
anyways um and you said manipulator and
orator what were the other ones well
it's an orator check but I mean to is
there helping available of course you
just have to describe it in the fiction
can I get a
gear bonus for reply referring back to
the dead body with the missing head you
mean to the the boy yeah sure since we
brought him back and like, "Hey, we
brought them back." And technically, it
would be supplies, but yes, uh you
can you can you can get a bonus from
that. Label your bodies correctly.
Correct. Uh yeah, GM Scott, you were
trying to uh How are you trying to help
out? Um well, I mean, if he's up there
spinning tails, um I think for me, not
orator, but manipulator might be uh
better. again, um, you know, adding in
more of the,
uh, the halftruths. You know, they they
stripped the body of all the valuables
and left him there and Oh, perfect. You
know, terrible. Yep. But actually,
that's kind of true. But, um, that is
actually true.
But you make it you make it sound worse
than it is. Did Did they push him into
the pit? We don't know. They might have
killed him and put him in there. They
might have. Am I able to help with my
remembering as my nature? Um, so wants
to remember. Well, so here's the thing
about remembering. Remember, remembering
isn't like I remember what happened
yesterday. Remembering is like I
remember 10,000 years ago. Yeah. So, no,
that I'm not helping. Yeah, that was the
only thing I have. Okay. Uh um might I
might uh I Yeah. uh kind of twist uh the
truths and everything with in riddles
and and kind of
um get um use it to like name call and
and to get to twist the things with
flourish as well as like to make a
catchy little a catchy little rhyme
about how bad they are. Yes. Just like
three or four lines. Just something the
kids can sing while they play.
particularly talking about uh yeah
particularly um twisting it to angle
towards uh Chartan. Okay. And and and my
the my brother um Nickerbe.
Yeah.
I'm like, "Yeah, they put him in the
hole." He's like, "Yeah, they put him in
the hole." I'm like, "Yeah, they cut his
head off." Yeah, they cut his head off.
Um Oh, is his name Nickerby? Yeah, Nick
or B. Oh, okay. I wrote down something
else. Nick or
B. And I think I'm gonna just synergize
with this if I can. Yeah, you can spend
your fate point. All right. All right.
So, Berber, looks like you've got uh
three dice of
help for this check. All right. So,
we're looking at uh we got five dice.
There you go. Versus OB two. Oh, this
looks good. Hey, you did it. There we
go. Uh so, two fixes, I think. That's
right. And so, True. Yes. So, um, so not
only do you succeed, but, um, you get a
pass on your ortor, which you just lost.
So, you actually, you actually level it
back up. So, it's actually pretty good.
Um, it's a good one. So, you you went
you successfully went nowhere. Uh, which
is great. Um, all right. So, uh, roll.
I'm going to roll 2d6 on the successful
telling tales
table.
Here we
go.
[Music]
Nine. Toast of the town. Your reputation
gets a boost. You are all granted plus
one dice to all future circles tests in
this town. Nice. So, you can note that
on your character sheet that you get
plus one town have a name. Fairhill.
Fairhill. Where's our notes page? Also
note that there is the quit your
[ __ ] rule in effect. Every time you
tell tales in a settlement, the next
time you tell tales, the ob keeps
getting one higher. So ah that's
actually really cool. It's called the
quit your [ __ ] rule. I like
that. Definitely very Luke circles in in
Fair Hill. Yep. So basically you have
you you it's easier for you to find
people locate hierlings or you know
anything like that because you know the
people here like you've told your
stories they like they like the cut of
your jib. Oh you guys were the ones who
rescued Kurt from that evil horrible
other party. I found uh in the uh bio
and info tab you can edit it and put it
there if you're looking for I was
putting in the allies and enemies thing.
That's might be a better spot. You're
probably right. Oh in kit there's a
notes section. That's where I put mine.
Kit. Oh there. Yeah. I'm going to put in
there. Fairhill. Fairhill. The remote
village of Fairhill, aka the home of the
Sheepkar family.
So, plus one circle check in Fairill.
Mhm. Yep. Awesome.
All right. I I suppose um now buying
stuff is different. You make the test
against the items and then you and that
and these and your money that this coin
that we have. Yes. And you make the
checks against each individual item.
Now, like some of the things come in a
stack, like you don't buy a torch,
right? You buy a stack of four torches.
Gotcha. And torches we need. Yep. Um
Yeah. So, anything OB two or lower is
available. So, uh torches are available,
candles are available, rations
available, wine is available, uh iron
spikes, a hammer, but you couldn't buy
say thieves tools. Uh you couldn't buy a
roll. And also too, most weapons are OB
three, so you can't really buy them. You
could buy
you could buy needs something, doesn't
he? You could buy a M. You could buy
helmet and leather armor. Those are the
two things that you can buy from an
armor perspective. I have a dagger. I'm
good. Okay. All right. Cuz I can keep it
around my neck. So it it gives me the
and that's really the only thing that
you can keep around your neck weapon
wise. So it gives me the ability to
carry more. Yeah. The only the only
weapon you could buy here is like a
flail and a mace and a dagger. Yeah. I
mean, that's nothing. Oh, and a staff
and a spear. Basically, really simple
weapons. Yeah, yeah, yeah. How about a
Christ appraise ring? Uh, no Chry Praise
rings. Darn it. No appraise rings. Um,
and then uh the haggler thing uh with uh
Yeah. So, so if you make the haggler
check, if you ch if you choose to do it,
um what you can basically do is kind of
go to the the the the market and try to
strike a successful deal. If you
succeed, uh it can give you benefit. And
one of the big benefits that you get is
that you can get better deals on loot
that you're trading in. You guys aren't
trading in loot. So it's it's really
hard to make money worth more than
money. But like it's one of those things
where it's like if you brought back a
gem and it's worth like four dice, you
might be able to get six dice for it or
seven dice for it if you haggle it
really well. But you guys don't have
anything like that, so it's kind of not
as useful.
This coin was double struck at the mint
and therefore is worth a lot more money.
Yeah. Okay. Um well uh I want to make
sure we have I think the next big thing
we need is torches. We have two and we
probably need Yeah. So each stack of
torches is ob two to buy which means you
need to now. So again if you have zero
resources
uh you would need you you could spend
one dice of treasure and you roll one
dice you would fail. And if you
succeeded with that d6, you would have
failed by one, which means you still get
the torches because the tax was one and
you spent one dice of treasure. But if
you rolled zero, then you failed by two
and you only spent one dice of treasure,
which means now you can't pay for it and
there's a consequence. Like they might
say, "Get out of here. What are you
trying to do? You're trying to like scam
me out of these torches. You don't even
have money and you can't pay for it
after the fact." So it's like you have
to put the money up before you make the
roll. In other words, if you spend two
dice of treasure, basically you can
guarantee to buy it. Gotcha. Because
even if you because but then you those
two those two dice of treasure are gone
and they're not they can't be used for
the thing for uh our lifestyle, right?
No, you're spending it there and we need
but we need these torches. Yeah. So, uh
he has his money from home. Yeah. The
last little token gift from his parents.
Uh, now the good news is if you, by the
way, if you succeed at the resources
check and your resource is zero, your
resources does go to one automatically.
So Oh, nice. All right. So, I'm going to
spend my my personal wealth. Got it. So,
you're spending your two dice. Yep. All
right. Well, roll 2d6 against OB 2. You
could. So what you do is you make a re
So you roll resources and then for
supplies or you would put in two and the
ob is two and then roll it
cuz if you pass if you get two successes
your resources will go up to one.
2v2. 2v2. So you have a 25% chance.
Hey there you uh I rolled that wrong.
Nope, you rolled it wrong. need it as a
versus
uh independent. Yep. Ah, okay. That's as
that's what All right. Yep.
All right. So, you failed by two, but
you used two dice of treasure. So, that
counts as a failure, which doesn't do
anything to your resources. Basically,
they're not going to extend your credit
because they were basically you were
just like, "Hey, it's two gold." And
you're like, "Okay, here's your two
gold." Like, they're just like, "You
just paid for what it was worth." But
you do gain a fresh fresh on
stack of lovely
uh delicious
torches. So a total
of there you go.
Me personally, I just need a helmet
other than and then I'll carry whatever
else anybody needs me to carry. Well,
that's one stack of
torches. Um which Saddak already
snatched up. Oh. Oh, no. I I I like
that. I I think just keeping that way
people know what like what what
everybody what we have and it's just
like that and then you can kind of
distribute as a gear for thing. Yeah.
Because we have to rearrange anyway to
make it fit on our sheets. All right. Uh
anybody else want to go? Remember you
guys we need more torches, don't we?
Sure. I'm just saying like this is this
is your time. This is your your guys'
town phase and your money to spend. So
I'm just trying to see how many torches
we went in last time. You guys probably
had about like 14 16 torches. I had
four. I think I had eight. Is it It's
not possible to make torches. Of course,
it's possible to make torches.
Uh probably a peasant check.
That would increase our increase my
lifestyle by one,
but
I'd like to buy a helmet. Okay. How much
is it? Uh the the odds to buy a helmet
is two. Two. Yeah. All right. I got two
dice of my leftover um your personal
coin. Personal coin. Okay. And then I
have a resource rating of one. Right.
So, what you'll do is you'll make a
resource check. Nope. And you're going
to do this against uh it's an
independent roll against OB 2. And then
you're going to add two dice of gear and
supplies because you're using up your
your coin, which I will delete from your
character sheet. And now you're three
dice versus two. Um
Can I use a trait? Is that an option?
Uh, on resource checks, I don't think
so. I don't know. Well, maybe. Explain
the trait. Cunning. Oh, yeah, that
sounds fast. Talking them. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay, that actually makes sense.
Can I also use
um negotiator my because I mean it's
literally what I'm doing. Well,
negotiator isn't a trait. Nature. My
nature. Uh, but when you have this is a
resource check, so you can't use you
have res because you have resources. So,
just making sure. Yep. All right. So,
roll your four dice. Let's go. No. What?
Dang. All right. Well, unfortunately,
you rolled two ones. At least you put
two in there. But because you put in
two, you don't get taxed. Um, and that
means that you pay for it, but it's
basically kind of like an even Stevens
transaction. It's not going to help your
credit rating, but it also doesn't hurt
you. And a new helmet is added to the
party's acquisitions. Um, where I put it
over here. Oh, I got you. Is anybody
tracking our gold expenditure? It's
well, yeah, it's on It's right there.
It's on the off the map. Yeah, this is
just my our own person. I had a bag of
gold with the dice on Tim or uh Bob, all
the gold left in the party is at the
bottom of the screen. Yeah. Yeah. But
are you taking away every time people
spend it? Yes. That's what I was That's
double check. like I can't tell if I'm
losing and tracking it. I'm like, "No,
we we don't just are spending it." No,
you guys you guys are down to 11 coin
because Okay. Well, because Saddok and
Herbert both spent their personal stash
of coins. Now I understand. Okay. Yeah.
So, we we walked in with a total of uh
14 torches. Load them up. Wow. Well,
right now you guys have six and that's
including the ones you just bought. Yep.
I have two on me and then we have four
we just bought. So it's candle it's
candle time. No
unless we want Amos to be light in the
every every session and burdening
himself. Yeah. You're like that's way
easier. That's what he does. All right.
Uh who else needs to make checks? I've
got a couple to make. Yeah, please. I
mean Yeah. I mean, guys, it's just
there's
no scrolling. Yeah. Scrolling.
Scrolling. Scrolling. So I need to
Sorry. Sorry. Scott, go ahead. Oh,
that's right. I I need to memorize I
ethereal appendage instead of uh
premonition. Okay. Well, that means you
have to release at least to flop house.
Yeah. Or I have to release what I got in
my mind now. That's a that's a check
though, right?
To release. Yeah. Doesn't it like it can
blow back and blow you up?
Rough day.
Yeah. What was it? Retribution. No. Uh
right. scrolls. Forget a spell.
Tamriius discharge. That's it. You
unbind all spells stored in your memory
palace, seeking to channel the energy
through your body and hopelessly out or
hopefully harmlessly out into the ether.
To do this without ill effect, you must
pass a will test with an obstacle equal
to the sum of the circles being
discharged. It does not cost a turn or
cost a check. So, this is does not
include lifestyle. Um, but basically,
you're going to make a will ob one. Yep.
Yep.
So, will this is independent? It gets to
one. I mean, it's a nice way to get a
pick up a pass on your will one
presumably. Yeah. Zero turn of the
grind. Yeah. You can't just rememorize
spells in torch bear once it's in your
palace. You either have to cast it or
you have to d like release the energy uh
and you could potentially quote uh you
could suffer aetheric burns and become
injured. You could twist a hole in space
and time. Um that sounds fun. Yeah. All
right. So, it's just independent will
against OB one. Uh, I'm not going to put
anything else against it. Yep. Uh, and
so I'm going to roll. Okay.
And I see a six. All right. So, there
you go. So, mark a pass for your will.
Um, and you successfully discharge your
memory palace, which is now empty. So,
you have one slot available. Excellent.
In your memory slot. Now, you get to
memorize spells for free if you stay at
the flop house, right? Yep. Which is
where I'm going to have to stay. Okay.
Now, I also saw that there was a guild
house requirement for scribing, right?
The good news is there is no guild here,
so you don't have to worry about it. All
right. Excellent. It's actually a
problem because when a guild has control
in a town, you basically have to pay
extra extra tax to to use their
facilities. Otherwise, they can come
after you. Yeah. So, but there's no
guild here. So, Okay. So, yeah, I'd like
to memorize athereal appendage and then
scribe that. Okay. Well, uh, so you get
to memorize, I believe. Uh, yep. Make a
lore master test with an obstacle equal
to the sum of the circles of the spells
you wish to memorize. Okay. Now, going
to the flop house does uh take a
lifestyle, I think, right? Yeah. Yeah.
The flop house itself. Yeah. Y. So,
we're at a total of carnalis one, Amos
2, one, tain two.
It's whatever's on the whatever's on the
five screen. Your guys' hit points are
what your lifestyle cost is. Yeah, he
put it above our heads. Oh. Oh.
Yeah. Nice. Memorize. So, you memorize.
Um, you look like you do something now.
Well, I like when no one's looking. Yes.
All right. So, you place uh what' you
put? Ethereal appendage. Yes. Into your
memory palace. Okay.
Now you can remove Now you can remove
that spell from your memory palace by
casting it, by discharging it, or by
scribing the spell as a scroll. And that
is what I'd like to do. As many as I can
for the one check. Uh well,
unfortunately, I think it's just one.
Okay. Uh you can make multiple scrolls
if you have multiple spells in your
brain. Okay. Oh, okay. But but you
don't. Um each scroll holds a single
spell. Uh blah blah blah. It takes up
one slot in your
inventory. Memorize the spells. Uh you
must have the spell memorized. You must
test the scholar chest against the
obstacle. Uh creating it in camp costs a
check. In town, it costs personal
business plus one. A character with the
scholar skills assumed to have plus one.
But uh yeah, but you know what? Uh we'll
make this a little saucy. If you
increase the OB by one, I'll let you
make two.
Um, can I apply my thoughtful trait and
take my time doing it? Absolutely. All
right, I will use that to my benefit. Do
I have to wait, how do I do that? Is
that fade or persona? Uh, neither. Oh,
good. Um, so what you're going to do is
you're going to make a scholar test.
Yeah. And this does cut as personal
business. So I'm going to increment.
It's up two. And you are making a
scholar check against ethereal appendage
which has a scribe cost of two. Scholar
two. And then you are going to increase
the ob to three if you want optionally
to create two scrolls from it. Oh yeah.
It's not the circle. It's that ob. Okay.
So maybe just one. Okay. Because I I
don't think I'm going to be that lucky.
Okay.
All right. So let's give this a shot.
See if I can write a scroll here. Well,
before you make it, does anybody want to
help? Yeah, GM Scott. Um, what can I
help with? Great question. Again,
remember, you can always describe how
you're helping, but in the role of the
game, steward, lore master, and scholar
can help people with scholar checks.
Where's the steward
check? That's where it's used for. Can I
can again, can I do scavenger to try to
scavenge up some material for him? You
know what? He does need inks, quills,
and brushes. And you're in town, so
yeah. Okay, I'll let you help with
scavenger. Uber's justber's just a
street rat. All right, Jim Scott, you
don't have anything good, but Brian, uh,
but Ryan and Laughing Outlaw, Urban and
Saddak are able to come up and they're
like, uh, don't ask where I got this.
And they're like,
we're supposed to be good here. Not bad.
All right. So, yeah. Uh, so two dice.
Uh, yeah. I'm almost wondering if I
should now with all this extra stuff if
I should make a second. I don't suppose
I could assist with ritualist. No,
because I'm allowing scavenger. Okay.
So, I probably would have, but I'm only
allowed to add one skill to the check.
So, otherwise now you need lore master
or steward.
All right. There's one last thing I have
to
check. So, deeper understanding luck and
of course, okay, so I could I do have
buffers. I am going to try and add in
another OB to create a second scroll.
Okay. So, it's gonna be OB three. Yep.
So, five dice versus OB three. Okay. And
I do have a persona waiting around if I
need it. Uh to do what? Uh I think it's
what? Of course. That's only if you have
a will or a wise that you could use. Oh,
okay.
Um advantages. If I get a d6, right, you
can spend you can spend uh uh wait,
wait, what are you talking about?
I'm I'm looking at ways to spend Persona
points. I have written down advantage,
channel your nature, and uh of course.
Yes. Yes. Advantage gives you plus one
die per persona point.
And is that after the fact? Nope. Of
course not. No, it's it's it's Yeah,
it's all on your uh again, you just you
go you follow the columns on your
character sheet or on the roll sheet and
you start from the top left and you go
down. So when you get to the Yeah. So at
the the before you hit the roll button,
there's that persona and you can spend
it. Yeah.
Okay. Oh yeah, I'll spend a persona. Why
not? I need to spend them to level
anyway, right? That is true. Now,
alternatively, you could channel your
nature and that'll add like four or five
dice.
But how would I channel my nature? You
wouldn't. It's not boasting, demanding,
or running, which means you are outside
of your nature, which means you will tax
your nature.
Yeah, I think I'm good with this.
Okay, six dice. All right, let's see
what we
do. Oh, so close. All right. Is there a
six? There. There is a six. So, you can
spend a fate point, which you do not
have any exploded. All right. So, I'm
going to not twist you. I'm going You're
going to succeed, Tane. Um, but uh long
hours of of scribing the scrolls and
trying to uh make make it into something
uh leaves you weary and exhausted.
Oh, man.
working with these substandard
materials. Hey, I'm doing my best here.
This is the best area to get find stuff.
You sent an illiterate dwarf to go find
you writing materials. What were you
thinking? I am not illiterate in in
dwarven.
I must think in Thwven. All right. So,
that was a scholar role that I failed.
Yes. But hey, that's good. That that is
good. Um, but I am going to give you I
mean I'm going you're going to get um a
scroll or two scrolls. But it'll be uh
uh but at the cost of of of you uh
obviously picking up exhausted. It's
it's long work. Long hours burning the
midnight oil. This is no this is no
modern RPG scribing. Uh it's a lot of
work.
So then you also said I was exhaust
exhausted and just exhausted. Oh, okay.
Um,
uh, I think I think we we need more
torches. You're the best one at spending
our money.
Just a lot. Okay. What do you need? Just
Just tell me what you need me to do and
I can do it.
Uh well, I think we should spend more of
uh this
gold and
uh get another stack at least and then
we should really
consider maybe getting out of here. We
need this torch barge uh Derek from the
Forbidden Lands campaign that Smith
always kept grabbing all the torches
from. uh all flares
arch of torches. That's all they sell.
Cuz cuz right now, if I understand
correctly, we have a total of
uh six
uh Yes. lifestyle amongst us all. Mhm.
And and I need to spend one at least
more. Yeah. And so we have cuz I haven't
done anything for myself yet, right? So,
and I have to memorize a spell, too. I
don't know if that takes a lifestyle,
though. It sure does. Of course it does.
I wanted to um actually go to find a way
of crafting and putting these
freaking handles on the helmet this
time. Oh, you're going to have a really
hard time with that in this dinky little
village that doesn't have a blacksmith.
Yeah. I mean, not really. Not like in
the way that you would need it. They
have a guy who can make horseshoes, you
know. Okay. I think we spend one more We
need torches. We need one one more stack
of coins on gold on torches and then we
just do the lifestyles that we need to
do still and then uh and then we get out
of here and just then head back to the
dungeon everybody. I need I need to
recover from I need to recover from my
exhaustion too. Oh,
okay then. Which I just got.
Well, the good news is Tane, you did
stay at the flop house because you
already paid for that.
Um, and by staying at the flop house,
you get one free recovery check. Ah,
okay. And you can make a free recovery
test against either angry, afraid,
exhausted, or injured. So, if you want,
you can make that check right now. It's
free. Health OB three. Health OB three.
O, and no one can help you. And your
cloak is helps you, I believe. Uh, uh,
against exhausted. Yes, because you were
wearing it while you were doing
including recovery tests. So, yep. All
right.
Now I have to go hover over that cloak.
Oh wow. What just happened to the UI?
Yeah. How much is a cloak?
Uh that is a great question. I don't
have an immediate answer. Not worth as
much as torches.
It Here's the biggest cost for Berber.
It requires a backslot.
Well, I can always switch them out when
I need them. Whatever. You know, I'm I'm
in town. I just switch out the armor
from the cloak. The cloak is OP, too.
The cloak is too bot. Yeah. Yeah. So,
they do have cloaks here. All right. TP
put that under other dice then. Yeah.
Well, it doesn't matter actually where
it goes, but yeah. Okay. Technically,
it's gear, but
All right. Well, let's see what we got.
Four dice against three.
Stranger things have happened. Hey, I
know you do it, dude. All right, Tane.
you get, you know, after after very long
hours of scribing scrolls, maybe you
spend a whole day and a night, uh, you
finally literally flop down in the flop
house and you sleep like you haven't
slept in in ages. Uh, and you awake with
no exhaustion. Fantastic. All right.
Now, I just had to memorize that spell.
All right. Well, Tane, take another
lifestyle. And Tane, go ahead and make a
lore master check. What are what are you
going to add to your uh memory palace?
I am going to add wizards aegis switch
to learn. No, describe. Nope. It's the
lore master check to Oh, and it's just
per It's just the circle. Per circle.
Okay. So, lore master four versus ob
one. Yep. So, here we go. And it's
wizards ages.
There you go. There we go. There you go.
Okay. And now Wizards Aegus is added to
your memory palace. All right. Uh you
guys have been yelling at K or at Berber
to go buy torches. So yes, we need
torches might have to make this test
while uh or we can do Dennis can do his
thing real quick. Yeah, Dennis. Uh Amos,
what do you do? Put his food in his
mouth.
Thanks for that, Bob. Yeah, you look
ready. Uh all right, Amos, you're going
to pray at the shrine. Pray the shrine.
Okay, let me bring that up.
All right, uh Amos, you make your way to
your the shrine to the immortals. Uh it
is decorated celebrating the uh the the
planting season here in the in the
spring as everyone is getting ready to
uh uh give thanks to the Lord of
harvests and they're hoping for a
bountiful season that there will be a
great harvest. Of course, this is a very
important time. You and your family have
celebrated this as long as you can
possibly remember. So, the rights are
very well known to you. So, I'm going to
go ahead and say that the ob here is um
is one lower. All right. Yeah, it would
normally be two. Now, it's one. Correct.
Now, uh quest. So, I'm going to let you
do two things here. I'm going to let
you, you know, do your immortal burden,
but I'm also going to let you make an
attempt to make an offering at the
shrine, which is a thing that anyone
could do. For example, Bob could go do
this if he wanted to. Um Oh, what can I
offer? But you get to do it with the
same lifestyle cost. All right.
What are uh offerings like? What are
typical offerings? Um well, you would
probably be offering nothing because you
have nothing to offer. What if I want to
put one of these rations out? Okay.
Well, you you tell me what you're doing.
But I believe it would cost you
lifestyle. Oh, it definitely cost
lifestyle. No, not really. And I want
to, but I'm not. Amos, should you be at
two or one?
Two or one? What? Lifestyle? Uh I am at
two currently. Okay. Uh so Saddak is
really at zero. Yeah. I've I've He's a
free but the minimum SADOK is one. You
you can't you can't not not pay
lifestyle. Okay. So uh Booth B first you
want to purge here. Uh yes. Okay.
So this is a theologian test. Yep. You
said one less ob. Yep. Uh is it this is
a actual shrine. So, we get a plus one
bonus for that. Yep. But since this is
your you always get that, but because
this is your personal home shrine,
that's why the AB is lower.
Okay.
Um, okay. Three dice versus OB one.
Okay, perfect. Got this. Are you touched
by the gods? Yes. That's why there was
something I knew I was forget.
Yeah. Uh, yes.
Don't worry. You're in town phase. I'm
being nice in the adventure phase. Get
[ __ ] Um,
touch this.
All right. Uh, there you go. All right.
Mark, you're pass. And you get to purge
I think all your burden, right?
Uh it is
reduce your burden by one plus margin of
success which is two. You beat it by two
or you beat it by one so you get two.
Yeah, that's what I thought. Which is
the minimum of what I needed. Correct.
Um however, in addition, you can make an
offering to the lords of plenty and want
um for free because you're already here.
So go ahead and make the offering. This
is a theologian test and normally it
would be OB three but it's going to be
OB two for you Booth B. Now you don't
have to make this test but this is like
when you go to the shrine and like you
know anyone's like offering them uh you
know uh uh uh prayers and and and thanks
not really to cure your burden but to
actually like pray to the gods. All
right. Would you like some bread of the
body? So you said the the an independent
theologian versus what?
Obtu. And Bob is suggesting that you
leave some of the sl of the slaughtered
meat as an as an offering to the gods.
It's what I would have done if I wanted
the paid lifestyle.
Uh I am I was touched by the gods. I am
the sacrifice. There you go. He says all
right. So I take sad sad is brushing his
head like the sweat off his head at the
like the idea of like spending that
food. Well, what if I fail this check?
You know, we'll find out together.
Oh, I see a five.
No. Uh well, the good news is you
failed. Um the good news is my
theologian has just gone up. Hey, you
failed theologian. That's great. Uh, it
goes up immediately. Um, failure brings
a condition and a roll on the table or
twist. The immortals are deaf to your
feeble cries. Um, so, uh, Boothby, I'm
going to be somewhat nice to you here.
Uh, so you are only made hungry and
thirsty. Um, for they do not eat of the
body. Instead, they eat of your body,
and you are left drained and famished,
and you are hungry and thirsty.
However, as a result, you get to roll on
the immortal omen's table. Roll a d6 and
hope and hope that sounds like fun. And
hope you roll a d6. And hope you roll a
six.
Ah, hold on. It's just typing. It's like
I mean there's literally a button you
can push for the die, too. Yeah, it's in
the top left corner. You just that you
hover over that dice. You click it and
then you can just click D6 cuz
uh things got weird in my room. That
doesn't look good. I don't know if blow
is good.
All right. Dragon Bane. Um, perhaps
perhaps driven by the lack of food, you
are granted the huntress's wisdom booth,
you get to the next time you make an
outdoors camp event roll, you add plus
one to that result, which means you'll
get a better result. Sweet. But that
lasts forever. So note that. And next
time when you make an outdoor camp event
roll, add plus one. So it's one time.
It's one time. Add plus one to your next
camp event roll. But it could be this
session, three sessions from now, five
sessions from now. You have the
huntress's wisdom. Thankfully, our
awesome super secret camp is outdoor.
That is true. But you don't, you know,
typically that the that Right. Exactly.
So when you make camp there and roll on
the camp event table, you'll get a plus
one to that. Uh but if you do, if you
were to do that in your camp that you
have down in the web fil spiderw webs,
there's literally no reason to use that
camp anymore. Potentially. Yeah. Just
because you have fast travel doesn't
mean you can always fast travel Scott.
Yeah. Okay. So, yeah, please. And then,
uh, I guess the only other thing I want
to do is marketplace for those weaving
materials. Oh, yes. Okay. OB one.
All right. To buy these supplies for the
weaver. So, you you need to make an OB
one resource check, which you have zero.
So, you have to spend one value of coin.
I will spend one value of mine. Unless
you want me to do it and I got an one
resource.
Um, okay. Yeah, because you have two
dice of personal cash, right, Booth?
Right. So, I'll reduce that down to one
dice. And so, roll
d6. Uh, or make technically make a
resource roll with zero dice and add one
supply. But you could also just roll d6,
if you want to be quick about it. The
good news is if you pass this, your
resources goes to one. So, resource die
independent ob one with a resource. Yep.
Oh, and Ber can help you. I got a
resource for you because he has one in
resource, so he can actually help you
buy stuff. All right, so two dice versus
ob one. Yep. Two dice versus ob one. One
from help, one from uh your buddy. He
needed it. Hey. All right. So, not only
do you buy the weaving supplies, but uh
you know, the people here trust you and
you know, you have your money's good
here and so your resources go. He
actually comes back to town. Yeah, he
actually comes back to town. So, your so
your resources goes from zero to one.
So, your resources goes up and you have
the weaver materials, which means they
make you the super rope. Oh, nice.
We need a 16 bit for
that. And that did increase my uh
lifestyle by one for the Nope. Shopping
does not increase your lifestyle. The uh
the the the uh purification does.
Correct. I think we already did that,
didn't we? Didn't we? Or no, we didn't.
Okay. So, you should be OB or uh free.
Okay. No, we have So, what's the ratio
for money compared to what we're looking
at for Oh, if this is a rope, if this is
rope money right here that I'm moving
around, you be my rope money was taken
out of my stash. Sorry, I mean, not rope
money. Uh, torch money that I have moved
off to the side. The one over to the
left. This is This is what we've got.
Uh, otherwise, it's uh 60 uh well,
six, seven, eight dice.
Yeah, we got one more torch to buy it.
And I and I think rather than you buy
it, I should buy it because if I buy it
and succeed with your help, they also
may start to trust me, right? And they
and you need to use a lifestyle because
your default is one anyway. Well, uh,
not if you buy stuff. This isn't buying.
This isn't going to raise it. Oh, never
mind. Well, do you want to do anything
else since you need to do you could do
something? Well, I
I I need to rest. He needs to rest. I
need I would like to buy a cloak if that
I I don't think we have the money for
cloak.
Well, that's if we fail though, right?
No, we don't. We lose the money
regardless. Yep. You always lose the
money. Even if you fail. Always lose the
money. All right. Yeah. Well, if you
fail, but if you pass You pass, you lose
the money. You do? Okay. Yep. All right.
And can I eat this one little lone
reserve ration and get rid of my hungry
and thirsty? If you're if you have it.
Yeah, sure.
All right, go for your roll,
Ryan. And actually, you can get a help
from Boothby, too, cuz he got a resource
now, too.
Is it true?
Uh, it did. But yeah, you can get help
from Boothby now. Yep, it's actually
true.
independent ob two
uh
three. Uh oh, this is a two. So it's
four versus two. Yep. Yeah. Wait, are
you not spending any coin? Oh, I am the
the the right here, right? This is two,
right? Uh I don't know what this means.
The the ob is two, right? Yes, but
you're rolling four dice.
Uh two for help. Yep.
Uh, two for the coin against OP two.
These gold coins right here. Yeah. Okay.
Deleted.
Okay. Go for it. If you get this, your
resources goes up. Hey, perfect. All
right. So, you make good and they sell
you another bundle of torches and your
resources goes up to one.
Excellent. That's actually pretty good.
All right. What do I need to do to what
do I need to do to get rid of the um
exhausted? you need to go stay at the
flop house or sleep on the streets or uh
but then it'll but it'll cost you
lifestyle is basically what it comes
down to. Okay. So, which one would give
me a bigger benefit? Uh I don't think it
really matters because if you sleep on
the streets, you potentially I think can
like end up sick and dying. So, you may
not want to do that.
I just got rid of that. Now, is there is
there something that can be done? Now,
we don't have He doesn't have a cloak.
Could he say borrow a cloak? No. No.
No. No. Um, I'll sit around the fire and
share the one cloak. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Um, if you sleep in the stables, it
still costs one, so it doesn't matter.
Um, but uh, yeah. The health check.
Nobody can help me with that. Nope.
You're on your own. Opto. Uh, it's
whatever it says it is. It's on the
thing here. Uh, it's OB three
health. Can I use my born of earth and
stone to fight back? Oh, yes. Well, it's
not the cold, it's just exhaustion.
Yeah, absolutely.
Two. You also could he spend fader
persona in it anyway to help him
potentially? It depends. Uh if he I got
six against three right now. So I
mean we'll see what happens. I might
have to like spend it.
All
right. And it looks
like awesome. So make sure to mark a
pass for your health because that was a
passed health test. So you get a pass on
your health and you eliminate exhausted.
I am all right. I am doing nothing from
so I don't freaking lose anything. And
then that was your lifestyle. So you're
two. Okay. Sadok. You're going to get
hit with one regardless of what you do.
So you might as well do something
something.
Uh I want to
Yeah, it's called the toll gate. Uh the
minimum lifestyle cost is always one.
There's always some sort of fine toll or
tithe to pay.
And it's not plus one. It's always just
No, it's just one. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
Um I
wrote, is there a way I could just like
scavenge for some stuff? Like more
maybe. What What are we thinking we're
needing? Yeah, you could try scavenging.
Um more torches. Scavenge for torches.
Is that what we think we need? More
torches more than anything. Yeah. Right.
So, I mean, we got pretty good amount of
food, I think. Yeah, because you can you
can stretch the food, right? Right.
Yeah. Yeah. So, torches are light is
pretty much our biggest, especially with
those fresh rations. He can feed all of
us with them. Yeah. So, he's going to
he's going to spend his time just he's
like, "This is not enough. We need more
torches. I got to do it myself." You
know, it's it's like it's like, you know
what it's like? It's like It's like when
you take the little like slivers of of
soap and you start like combining them
into one into one bar of soap, you know,
when you're breaking the really thinning
that oil out. Yeah. Yeah. You're just
like stretching it out, you know? Like
you're like, "Don't they threw this
away. Look, this there's still 5 seconds
of torch left in this thing."
So, how long does a torch last? Uh, a
torch lasts two turns. Okay. Uh, no one
has a lantern, right? because I've got
this lantern oil and it lasts three
turns, but you have to have a lantern,
right? Well, you can't buy a lantern
here. It's too high of an OB. Okay.
However, the good news is scavenging for
tools or gear is a two OB two. But when
you're near town, the OB bonus is zero.
So, uh, in other words, it's uh, you
know, if you try to do it in a dungeon
or ruins, it's like plus three. Plus, it
just stays at two. It just stays at two.
And then it's a common item, so it stays
at two. So, there you go.
or scavenge versus that scavenge. I'd
like to and you can also be remember
anybody can help with this with
scavenger or scout. Oh well,
scout. See, I scavenger. I'm scout and
training. Can I follow along and watch?
Uh what's your scout rating? Uh I have
uh one uh uh beginner
l cannot. Uh this is this is my town. I
can I uh aid with peasant? Yes. Uh we
can like you. It's like this is not a
torch, but this broken chair leg could
be could be
retrofit. Oh, I I know old man
McGillicuy. He doesn't need this wood
anymore. We can Absolutely. You could
totally help. I was thinking you're
using the the the tools around the town.
I was thinking more in the wilderness. I
might go look out for some sizable twi
uh branches that might have fallen that
I could wrap around. Right. So, this is
just some super ghetto torch.
The one I'm giving you is a little
crooked. It really has more to do with
the oil. Sees this and it starts
bringing supplies. Yes. Using a fake
point on this. Does this one work? I am
too on scout. You're using this on
scout. Okay. So, it sounds like you're
being helped by everybody. Ryan,
not GM Scott. Not Scott. I got other
stuff to do. I'm tapping into my quick
wit to put these together. Okay. For me
plus one. Okay. I've got a help of
three. Yep. Two. Three. Three. Right.
Yep. Everybody's helping. In fact, two
people are using synergy. So, and it's a
two. I'm using synergy for sure, 100%.
This This is a stone soup torch if I
ever heard one. Yeah. Right. All right.
The whole party scatters around the town
and starts looking for odd bits of of of
wood and cloth and it's a it's a whole
it's all anything for Saddak. Yeah. It's
all it's all hands operation. And then
like Saddak is over there like with his
gloves on. He's like random
stick piece of cloth.
Yeah, short
sleeves,
curtsle shorts. Amos shows up. Amy Amos
shows up with like shards of strips of
his baby's blanket. You know, he's
like say shards of Darcia. So, all
right, Ryan, give it give it a roll.
Yeah. Hey. All right. You know what? And
you beat the obstacle by one. So, I'm
going to give you an almost complete
stack of torches. I like it. We've never
been so happy to make torches in our
life. That synergy increased my scout to
the next level. Sweet. All right, so
erase all your passes and fails and then
go to edit mode and boop, take it up to
the next
level. Sick. That was a success. So I am
so close.
All
right.
Um, good deal.
Now, I'm not trying to push anyone here,
but the real treasure is back at the
dungeon. Yeah, we need to are the
friends we made along the way. The
challenge is uh getting out of town. Did
someone buy a large sack? No, I took
that out of my inventory. Oh, okay. You
don't have room for it anymore. Um, no,
I really don't. I didn't have a need for
it because, you know, the dwarf carries
two. Yeah, I figured someone would grab
it. And we have that two things of oil,
which I don't know if you guys can swap
for it or do something with it. Someone
wants to carry it. I just don't have
room. I'll take it. I mean, I got all
this room now. So, all right. Where's it
at? Uh, well, there's only one problem.
Uh, where is all that? Those extra slots
are only there, uh, Berber, because it
carrying the torch. Yeah, I'm not even
focused on those right now. Okay. Okay.
Just what you're Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Got
it. I I know those sacks are gone. Okay.
Um, do you have two large stacks server?
Yeah, I have labor. So, the goal is to
fill both of them up and and double hand
them. I got it. I got it. Okay. Yeah,
but I mean that was the goal in the
first place and then I got rid of one to
put food in there and now um I also that
spider sick silk rope is still sitting
out there. We don't want to leave that
behind, right? No. And I have and I have
one slot for sure that can take up. Um,
also you took my rope. Okay. Well,
sorry. I said it was out there. I didn't
know you want to carry it. I was getting
rid of my uh spiderweb. Oh. Oh, yeah.
The spiderweb was consumed. I want my
lint back. It's It is available. Uh
remember, you can put your lint in the
pocket. Yeah, I went to the wrong one.
There you go. I have two water
containers, but I only have one water
jug. I don't know what happened to the
other water jug. It must have gotten
thrown away. Sorry. Maybe delete. You
need to delete that one container then.
Right there. I will. Thank you.
All right. Uh yeah. So, there's bunch of
water if you guys need it. You can
refill all bottles, water skins, jugs
with water. All right. Well, I can take
one of these torches.
I should also note when you pay your
lifestyle, you cannot help with that.
You're on your own for that.
Bastard. You're taking all So, it's it's
not a group thing then? Nope. It's each
of you individually. I'll take this
greener.
You're all responsible for your own
debts. Who needs the food? Because I can
take one.
I think that has to be separated. Then
another one has to go to Amos. Amos has
got some room. He's also got some belt
pouches, too.
Oh, cool. Cool. Okay, good. That's
everything then. It looks like our bags
are full. Oh, yeah. I'm Look at that
problem we had when we went to the
dungeon the first time. I'm going to No,
I'll keep it just in case. I had the
quiver of bolts for the thing, but you
never know what I could use it for. All
right, you Yeah, you know what? You
could all you you've you I mean, think
about it this way. You used your
crossbow to disable a trap. So, I'm sure
I'm sure you could come up with
something interesting for that. Okay,
Kurt's body has been returned to his
family. Uh, and then you guys, everyone
got all the water that they wanted.
Yeah, I got all the water I could carry.
All right, fair enough. Okay. Well, uh,
it's not quite the, you know, it's not
quite the wine loaden laden thing that
you had before, but, uh, you know, all
things considered, you guys are doing
pretty well. Obviously, you guys spent a
lot of your money, but, uh, uh, Amos has
still got a little bit of coin in his
pocket, and some of you still have a
couple of keepsakes from your family's
heritage. Sounds like you guys are ready
now that you've spent all your money to
leave town and spend the rest of our
money, right? So, uh, paying your bills.
Leaving in town incurs expenses, bills
and taxes to pay. When leaving town, one
pays debts. Total lifestyle
accommodations from services and
personal business. To clear your debts
and pay your bills, make a resource test
with an obstacle equal to your total
lifestyle cost. Resource test for
lifestyle must be made individually by
each player. Adventurers can spend any
remaining loot around, but they cannot
help each other on this test. So, yeah,
kind of divide up the money as you guys
see fit, and then we'll start making
checks. Uh, so let's go.
If that works the same way as purchasing
needs a one above him. I don't I have a
resource of one.
Oh, he's he's relying on that role. Now,
if you fail, Ryan, that resource could
be taxed and then it would go back down
to zero. Yeah, it's okay. Basically,
you're basically they're like, "Hey,
this guy this guy's good for his money."
And he's like, "I got to get out of
town."
No, that is the typical halfling. I
mean, you know, I mean, he's Damn him.
Damn him. I mean the real Yeah, the
reality is the only way to divide it up
to make have it make any sense, I
believe. Well, here's the thing. So,
let's take Tane for example. Tane has a
three lifestyle. So, the OB is going to
be three. Now, if Tane rolls zero
successes, he will have failed by three,
but he has three dice of treasure
assigned to him. So, that three dice of
treasure will absorb that margin of
failure of three. Mhm. But let's say
Tane had two dice of treasure. Well, now
he's going to roll two dice, but if he
gets one
success, he will have only failed by
two. And his two dice of treasure will
absorb that
failure. You see what I mean? Yeah. So,
the way you have it assigned right now
for like Tain, for example, guarantees
that he cannot fail. But if he But if he
But that's assuming he rolls zero
successes. Could we split up this gold?
Yep. Gold can be split. So then me and
Herbert each get one. Yeah, if you guys
want to. Yeah.
Um, so well I mean you could also do it
equivalently like
that. Right. Because Amos is getting two
dice. Tane is getting two
dice. That's if you split the gold,
right? So ideally
you you know to put gold one less.
Well, it it depends on how much you want
to risk the math. I mean, uh, Berber
does have some of you have resources,
you're going to be rolling one dice
anyways. Yeah, that's true. Three of us
do. Also, if you you can increase if you
have resources of one and you pass this
lifestyle test, that counts as a pass
and your resources goes up to two. Like,
so I don't get a technically a roll,
right? I because I just I No, if you
pass this, you'll go to resources one,
Bob. Excellent. Yeah. So re it's a
resource uh versus it's an OB. It's a
versus is only when you're like there's
an opponent fighting you. Gotcha. So OB
one. How am I getting the dice? Is that
from um that's from the Do you see the
screen that everyone else sees, Bob? Or
I'm in resources roll right now. No, no,
no. I know. But do you see the the the
graphic representation of the screen? I
get one dice. Yeah, you get one die. I'm
saying how do you add that on your
resource roll screen? It's just a gear
supplies. Okay, that's what I was
asking. Yeah. So just one one dice
versus one. All I'm saying is right now
you have two dice of coin un unassigned.
Do you guys not want to spend that? Do
you want to keep that? This this one
right here.
Can I use a trait like my cunning? Uh on
a resources role. Yes. Uh for lifestyles
role. No. No. Sorry. Not for lifestyle
role. No. Okay.
Feels Yeah. like we should try and
maintain our good standing here, you
know, trying to avoid any sort of
badness and well and and can any of us
even carry that gold out of town, right?
Oh, yeah. Amos has Amos has empty uh
belt pouches. Okay. Well, what are we
going to need it for in the dungeon?
Well, I mean, we could put it in
Boothb's um home cuz they can put a
catch. Oh, the stash. Yeah, the cash.
Yeah, they have the stash in his home.
You're going to come back and egg me up
house. you know party. Dad, don't spend
that half half leaf everywhere. We
didn't think you were coming home. Your
father said you'd understand.
Um, so what if I uh roll two dice and I
go over the OB um I get two successes.
Does it help me? Nope, it doesn't. It
doesn't matter. So So But you're gonna
you have you have a 50-50 chance of
passing. Yeah, I don't need the extra
dice. I'm feeling pretty confident.
I haven't rolled. I've rolled with [ __ ]
I don't feel confident at all. When it
comes to die rolling, I never feel
confident. Exactly. All right, I'm just
rolling because you guys are taking too
long. Freaking Bob. Awful roll.
Terrible. That's some confidence for
That's what confidence gets you, Bob. So
Bobb, so Bob fails by one, but he had
one dice of treasure, so it absorbs one
point of the margin of failure. So he
doesn't get punished, but he doesn't get
a pass either. And because he didn't
pass the check, he does not get fresh.
Yep.
I think we should uh I think we should
Oh, your nature's tax anyways. Yeah.
Yeah, it didn't matter anyway. I I think
we should use the gold uh to get Tan and
Amos before anyone more rolls are done.
Technically, you're supposed to divide
the gold before you start rolling. So,
right. Right. Right. I mean I was I yeah
I he rolled because we were we were
making and decided was it was always
about if Tain and Amos were going to
split this into one D each and I think
we should just because I think there's a
chance here you might get B. So you want
to give Berber you want to give Berber
two and Amos three.
Uh oh. We can't split these gold up. I
mean you can but it's one and two. It
doesn't make a difference,
right? Right. Oh, well, if Berber has
one and then T has three, right? So you
Oh, you want Tane to have three. There
you go. And then what if what about if
Berber turns that to two silver and then
one of the silvers goes to Amos. Is that
possible? Yeah.
Just because they have to roll against a
three and he's Berber has got no
resource. Yeah. Oh, I see. Yep. You can
do that.
I mean, I don't have to physically do
it. As long as you guys know what it is,
it's fine.
Tell me what I'm rolling here. All
right, Berber, you are rolling a
resources check against OB 2 with plus
one from coin spend. Yeah.
Hey. All right. So, Berber, you pass
your lifestyle test. You have no text
nature and you uh have no conditions. So
you regain the fresh condition and your
you get a pass on your resources. Uh but
so there you go.
So you now resources too. Okay, Amos,
you are rolling next and you're rolling
with three bonus dice, right? So
resources. So it's four dice total. Four
dice total
[Music]
against OB three. Yep.
Uh, free dice.
Uh, do you have an
resources? Oh, you never bought
anything. What? I I thought you had a a
base resource. Oh, you do. Okay, so four
dice. Yeah, four dice. Oh, I didn't
think you did.
No. So, you fail by two, but you had
three dice of treasure assigned to you,
so it absorbs it all. However, because
you didn't pass the test, not fresh. You
are not fresh. All right. Oh, my mother
kept me up all night just bitching.
Well, you know, you know, you know.
Yeah. You take care of yourself. Are you
eating well enough out there? I don't
know if I trust the halflings cooking.
Here. Here. Take my take my shepher take
take my shepherd's pie. Um, okay. Who
wants the saddak? Let's go with you,
buddy. All right. So, you're in plus one
die. Yep. And you have one point and you
have one point of tax absorption. Yes.
So, you really can't
fail because your ob is only one.
um roll.
But all right. Hey, you succeed and so
your resources goes up. Nice. And Tane.
Now Tane is rolling with zero dice, but
he gets three dice. So chances are
pretty good you're going to fail, but
you can't be penalized. So all right. So
here we go. Three sixes. Yep. Yeah.
Yikes. No. But So you failed by three,
but because it looks like I'm rolling a
character. But because three points of
treasure were assigned to you, it
absorbs all of attacks. Also, Sadak, you
gain fresh. Yeah. So, all right. I had a
pass. I had to spend all my money
healing those jokers.
All right. Well, uh, your your your
adventure in Fair Town, uh, Fairill was
was successful. U, you guys managed.
Now, you didn't get you didn't need to,
you know, of course, it's a little
remote village. You're not going to like
get cool new shiny equipment, but you
did manage to refill your packs with
torches. Uh, you got a new shiny rope.
You got plenty of torches. You got
enough food that the halfling should be
able to make a good cook out of it. Ber
was able to replace his helmet. Tain was
able to make some scrolls of some
actually useful spells. And more
importantly, you guys actually managed
to do a really great job uh clearing
your conditions and um uh getting your
resources up, not just from zero to one,
but a lot of you are now at resources
too. Two seems very big. So that's huge
because I mean that's that's two free
dice every time you make a resources
check. So, you know, being able to go in
there and prove that you guys are worth
it and that, you know, 50% chance to buy
a torch. That's right. You have a 50%
chance to buy a torch. That's right.
Um, so yeah, good stuff. Uh, okay. So,
uh, I know we we because it's only 8:30,
so we'll probably have time to get back
to the, uh, dungeon and then we can
probably wrap and then we can probably
wrap up. So, technically, we are now in
the adventuring phase and you guys are
back on the grind. Nice. Uh
the the the the break is over. However,
you have to make your way back to the
circle of
caravanol. So, this is going to be a
Pathfinder test.
Now, Bob, uh what ability did you take
for Coronal for leveling up? Did you
ever just I did not take the one you're
thinking of.
Okay. The one gives him The one gives
useful. The one that gives him plus one
died of Pathfinder test when he's
outside. I took the one that helps me uh
cure exhaustion. Oh, okay. Cool. You
guys are exhausted a lot. Um, that's
what I that's what I was thinking. I'm
like, I'm always exhausted. All right,
Bob. Well, this is going to be an issue
of the elf uh finding your way back to
the dungeon. So, this is the destination
is a short journey,
obfrequent or sorry, nearby one, and the
route condition is infrequently used.
So, it's an OB3 journey.
Okay. So, 3v3. Yes. Now, can anybody
help during this remembering you know
the path? Maybe scout and cgrapher can
both be used to assist along with
Pathfinder. I will aid you with my map.
Well, no, you don't have a map. If you
did, no. Well, in in world I'm a
sketches. Mechanically, I'm aing with
ctographer. Yes. Well, no, but it might
just be that you're, you know, you're
very good with directions. You know,
you've you've gotten you've taken some
notes. You just haven't converted them
into a
I'm going to uh uh help with uh
um scouting and I'm going to synergize
some now. Just be very careful. Now,
reason I bring this up, Ryan, is be very
careful because if you help and Bob
fails and I give him a condition, you
get a condition. If you gain a
condition, you lose fresh, right? Just
saying.
Saddok believes I believe that he needs
my help more. There you go. The mor the
moral of the story is don't help Bob. I
mean, all right. So, uh, Saddak is
helping with, uh, what are you helping
with, Scout? Scout. Okay. And then GM
Scott, uh, Ten Tane is helping with his
cartgrapher. Any help from Amos or Yes,
he is. Any help from Amos or Berber? Can
I help with my wise? I think with the
direction towards the What is your wise?
the Tal Talora the the actual temple. Oh
yeah. Yeah. You know the surrounding
area? Yeah. You know the area, you know
how to get there. Yeah, that's a great
question. I think I I assisted with
peasant as we were shephering in these
hills before. Yes. Very good before.
Absolutely. Help. Yeah. Uh technically
it's three help. One aid. One aid. Yes.
Okay. So 7 D O three. It's pretty good.
Sounds like you need to make a check
here. like or gain a check by playing
something against yourself. I don't. Oh,
yes, you could gain a check by I already
used loner already and it's loner. Loner
wouldn't make any sense, but Well, now
that I'm using the group to help. I was
thinking against myself. I can't go
against yourself. I already went for
myself. No, no, you can you can use it
against yourself. Well, then I want to
use it against yourself since I'm using
the help of my friends, right? Exactly.
This is Yeah, exactly. This is awkward
and weird for you. You're you're relying
on your friends when he hears the snap
and I'm right behind him. Yeah. Yeah.
That that actually makes complete sense
to use it against yourself. Yes,
exactly. Okay, so here we go. 6v3 and
this will earn you a check.
Hey, so Bob gets a pass on Pathfinder.
Anybody who spend a fate point to
synergize gets a pass on whatever skill
you helped with. Um, uh, Laughing
Outlaw, you used an aid. Uh, so your
wise gets a pass. Um, and then Bob, you
earn a
check. Okay. Well, you guys make the
journey. Uh, it is one ticko the
grind and you successfully make the
journey back
uh across the distance all the way back
to where it began the circle of caravan.
How's our camp looking? Well, do you
want to head to your camp? Um, we have
one check, but I think we would probably
want more than that. Oh, I see. Yeah,
that's a good point. You could camp. I
don't know if anybody has your instincts
triggered. You might benefit from going
to camp. Actually, that's actually a
good point. I didn't think about that.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean,
I mean, does anybody have check? Is it
worth it? Does anybody have instincts to
trigger in camp right now? No. I mean, I
have cgrapher update the map, but it
would just be like wasting our food. Oh,
cuz you you would insist on feeding
everybody. Okay. So, probably so
probably not. Probably not. More stew.
Guys, I I I've been thinking about this
recipe the entire way back. Correct me
if I'm wrong. James Scott, we are now on
your map, right? Yes, we are. Okay. So,
we'll probably end here in the
adventuring phase and we'll pick it up
here next time and that way you guys can
just immediately go to wherever you want
and that'll help you with your goal
setting. We can even probably do that in
the chat before we, you know, set that
up so we can kind of get right to it
because next time will actually be a
really good dungeon delving session
because you guys got a couple people
with fresh, you know, you got a couple
ticks on the grind cuz remember if you
can camp before the grind happens, I
mean, you might gain conditions from
failed checks and stuff, but if you can
camp before you get hungry and thirsty,
you guys can keep your your fresh a
little bit longer. Um, so there's kind
of a a nice little thing there if you
can figure out a way to make it work for
you. Um, also too, your instincts and
your beliefs and your goals will
probably be better suited for next time
with the dungeon. So, mine just mine
triggers. That's good. So, Oh, yeah. Do
we still go through that? Uh, oh yeah,
we still do the whole thing. So, we
we'll end here so that we don't go over
too much and and we can kind of uh end
on normal time. Um, okay. Uh, so we'll
we'll end it there and let's quickly go
through Bob. We'll start with Coronal
and we'll just kind of go down Coronalas
in order. Bob, uh, okay, what was your
belief? I will always have my friends
back. Didn't really come up in this. I
don't think so either, but your goal was
get back to the dungeon. All right, so
you earn a persona point by
accomplishing that goal. Boom. And then
your instinct never came up, obviously.
Correct. Nope. Okay, great. Uh, let's
next go to Ryan and let's go to
Saddok. Saddok, you had your belief was
I believe the group needs me more than I
need them. All right. You You made You
made your ploy. I I heard it. I heard
it. You You earned your fake point. You
earned your fate point. Um and your goal
is to make sure your packs are full.
That boy, you did a really great job of
that. Oh, yeah. We're like to the brink.
Well, not only that, Ryan, the whole
session was like, "Guys, these torches
though, guys, these torches though, can
we find torches? Is that something? Is
that an option? If we can't buy them,
can we scavenge them from the ground?"
Uh, so you earn a persona point for
accomplishing your goal. And obviously,
you guys did not go to camp, so no
instinct there.
Um, as a side note for those of you who
are level two, remember if you get to
level three, you earn a creed and the
creed is a new way to earn per persona
and fate. So, it can be kind of to your
benefit to that respect, too. Uh,
Tain, your belief is my reliance on
others highlights my weakness in magic.
When I gain enough power, I will no
longer need them. Uh, yeah, that's for
later. That's for later. Goal: I must
write scrolls of ethereal appendage.
Goal successful, buddy. Successful. Uh,
persona point gained for that. I now
have enough that if I can spend both
personas, I would be eligible for level
two. Okay. Well, that'll obviously Also,
you don't level up until you enter town.
So, no, no, I understand, but I wasn't
eligible before. Got it. Got it. All
right.
Amos. Amos, your belief is you are the
defender of the defenseless.
Didn't really defend anybody. Your goal
was to deliver the body of Kurt, the
shepherd boy to four sessions. After
four sessions, you know what? This is
this is a big personal goal, Amos, I'm
going to give you two persona points. Uh
you you've been holding on that body for
the whole campaign. It's it's been your
it's been your goal since the beginning.
You never wavered. It was always your
intention. You finally did it was to
find the body. Well, yes, it was. But,
you know, I'm saying he's been focused
on this one goal. So, but but here's
here's But yeah, here's the give up 5
minutes from the goal. No. And and he
didn't give up knowing full well that he
was not going to get any kind of reward
for it. He still kept with it. Correct.
That's right. I mean, he he did make the
weaver friends, which was last in
perpetuity. He did get him the rope, but
he didn't know that. That's true. He did
not know that. As far as we knew, there
was going to be zero reward for it. I
was expecting a reward. I was I was
going to try and make the rope myself
with peasant.
All right. And uh or not with a peasant
ber. Uh you believe that everyone I
should I should have tried to make the
case that uh performing the surgery on
the two party members was a dirty job or
an instinct. Oh yeah. Oh as an instinct
I I you know what yes that pro I would
have probably given that to you for
free. Yeah. At least at least the first
one you know like you know because
you're like ah fine you know vomit into
this. Um
all right so ber uh your belief is that
everyone should know how great we are.
You went out of your way to tell tales,
literally get the group a bunch of hype.
They all gain plus one circles. So, you
get a fate point for upholding your
belief. And then your goal is you will
recover in town. And not only that,
you're fresh. So, good job there. You
earn a persona point. So, you earn a
fate and a persona. And then, of course,
at the end, uh, we ask if there who was
the MVP and who was the team worker.
MVP. The person who made the single most
important role of the session. And then
the MVP is or the team worker is the
person who, you know, kind of did the
dirty work, got it done, uh, even though
it wasn't uh, sexy or glorious. Well, I
I I feel like it sounds like one of I
think Amos is at least one of those.
Yeah, because he was the one that healed
the checks. No, he failed both of them,
but they successfully got their
conditioner. Yeah, they could have also
just vomited and they would have gotten
the same effect. Damn, good point. But
he did help me level up my survival
point.
Yeah,
he also he brought back his you know he
accomplished his goal with the with the
child. So which got you nothing. Yeah.
My big goal was getting all that meat. I
was I was actually going to say Bob
hunting and getting hunting check was
all that bacon. All right. So Bob Bob
MVP for for getting the group for
providing bacon. For providing bacon.
Yes. I gave up I gave up my coal for a
failed check.
Now, as far as who the team worker was,
I'm not sure. I mean, who who do you
think like did the most made the most
checks and and kind of like helped
everybody? Was there somebody who was
always helping on every role? Actually,
Booth I think Booby helped with peasant
on like every role. So, Booth helped
with peasants on every role. My other
option would be um uh laughing at law
for all of his market work that he was
doing, right? He was the one that with
the high resources. So, and yeah,
helping I mean he helped Booth get a res
resource which then helped you know get
a resource. Yeah, that sounds good to
me. Yeah, I like I like laughing there.
Yeah, also he told the tales which Oh,
yeah. Huge. And he bought the helmet
which was for himself. But, you know,
like he was I got to do a little
something for me. That was like my my
treat. And he gave up the And he gave up
that piece of charcoal. And the
charcoal. Yep. All right. So, Laughing
Outlaw gain a persona point for uh for
being a uh for being a uh a team worker.
An MVP gets you a persona. An MVP gets
you a persona.
Um I'm If I spend this all that I have.
I think you need I need one more fate
and then I could spend that and I'll be
76. I think it's six.
Yeah. Seven fate. Yeah. Oh, it's seven
fate, six persona. Yeah. So, I'm real
close to being on the brink to do it.
Okay. Well, the other good news, too, is
I mean, especially, you know, Amos and
Sadok, you guys are sitting on a bank of
fate, fate, and persona. So, you guys
will be able to kind of go in here in
this dungeon and just like Alpha Strike.
Even Tane's got some Persona because
Tane, you were always kind of lagging a
little bit because you missed that one
session and that kind of put you behind
the eightball a little bit. And I
changed my goals before I accomplish
them. Correct. It does hurt. That does
hurt. I I was I was like, "Oh, oh, it's
literally in the next room. It's so
literally in the next room. I felt so
bad about that. Ah, we're never going to
find this thing. Oh, what's that? I just
tripped over. Right. Um, so since we do
have a little bit of time here now that
that's the end of the session. I mean
again you guys are free to drop out but
um you know one thing that we you guys
can kind of maybe briefly discuss um is
kind of what you do actually want to do
next
because in Discord you guys do have uh
the map um of what you guys have
accomplished and actually let me see if
I can copy paste that. We definitely
need to find this harp that's for um
number one. You do you want me to use
Booth Bee's map? Whatever one had the
pretty pictures that's Yeah. Which one's
more accurate? Uh, stairs down statue
hall. Yeah, that that actually works
pretty well. Yep. Yep, that's actually
perfect. I'll probably clean it up
later, but uh let me see if I Let me see
if uh this will let me post this. Paste
this in
here. Sometimes it does, sometimes it
doesn't. Okay. I just like the pretty
pictures. Oh, yeah. It'll upload. Sweet.
I'm I'm still using Excal for my own
map, though. No, no, no. The I I you
know, the pictures are just a nice Oh,
that's totally respectable. Uh, I have
no problem with that. Um, okay. I think
the only one I room I didn't get was
that statue hall. We were only in there
for like 30 seconds, right? Yeah, you
guys literally were only in there just
briefly. So,
um, let me get this sized up. There we
go. I love Secret Super Camp. It's just
hilarious. Yes. So, you guys have um Oh,
that's why they can't see it. Dang, I
forgot that the I want I want the OBS
people to see the map. So, um, there we
go. All right. So, the party is
currently at the ruins of Carvanol. And
of course, you guys can see that uh you
guys have access now because of the map.
You can take the well shaft straight
down
um without having to make uh dunge
engineering checks. Uh you can also take
the stairs on the at the platform down
back to the hall of Azer mist back to
the pre-requary room, back to the dragon
bone dagger relic room. You also have
access to go to the web hallways which
can lead to your secret camp that also
leads back to the tomb uh where the well
shaft exists. So you guys can go to any
of those spaces. Now in terms of
additional locations that you have not
explored, remember red is an unmapped
passage. You'd have to find it again. Um
there are other passages off of the
webbed hallways. And remember there is
also another door that leads off of this
chamber. Um which chamber? Uh the uh
sorry you're right. You're not in the
chamber. Uh off of the blue mist
hallway. It's the uh door that is was
off above the dragon mist door. Oh yeah.
Yeah. I've got that on my map that has
all the tracks and stuff. Explore door
there that we know about. Yeah. So uh
just FYI. So you know maybe some
discussion about what it is that you
guys actually want to do. I vote I vote
for when we're we don't know where the
harp
is. We're ready. I say we go take those
four skeletons at the bottom of the
wall. Yeah. Or maybe just sneak past
them if we could. Oh, because if they
still have that gold torque, we want
that. Yeah, that's true. I We There is a
treasure there, but I mean, could you
imagine?
We dropped down last time and we thought
no way we could take these. We are We
were We weren't ready for them. We
didn't know what we were doing. Nope. We
didn't have any All we have the Persona
Fate to handle it a little bit, but I
mean, we're not like maxed out. I mean,
we're not like I have a way to possibly
even the odds. We're far more or tip
them in our favor. Yeah, if if they are
cleared out, there was a bunch of we
were running cha chaotically. There's
some passages down there. We could
probably find out more information. And
I think down is the way to find this
harp. So, I don't mind that. So, either
the that relic query at the bottom of
this well or that web fil passage. The
other option is there is you guys could
try to make a dunge engineering check to
try to refine that statue hall again.
Okay. And that was an area that you did
come across, but you know it's there.
You just don't know where it leads or
what it does. But obviously it's a
location. So, you know, there's probably
something. And you have pretty good
dungeoning, right, Her Ber? I have Oh,
let me pull up. I think I have a
two right now.
Um, yeah, I got No, I got a three three
plus this is one of your wises, too. So
maybe Well, also remember right now he'd
be rolling with four dice because he's
fresh. Yeah. So maybe that I mean we
could try to find that statue room.
That's not a bad idea. And then y'all
could also help me. So
I don't mind either way. I I mean I
would tend to lead towards the
non-risisky fight. Um, but I don't I if
you're confident I I I'm I can turn the
tide in our favor. Then I don't mind
taking them down. And this would be we
we we'd specifically be driving them
off. No. Or we could kill them. Kill
them. I I actually now am not afraid of
getting into a kill conflict. [ __ ] We
got two people anymore. But but remember
if we have any sort of
we we still we could die even if we have
even if we win we still can die one of
us could because that's the uh
compromise even a lesser compromise
could mean right but remember driving
your disposition role is our disposition
role in a fight against these things
would be much higher than it was when we
first dropped down here. I mean I mean
what happens if we die? Who make a new
character? That is correct. Yes. You get
to take up to three points I think of
fate and persona onto your new
character. So there's that. But they
don't go up to second level. Oh no. They
started first. Yeah. So the the level
one people are in front
just I mean
so yeah. I like I like going in there
when we're we know it's dangerous, but
we're also the freshest we will ever be.
I agree with that. If you're confident,
if you two are confident that we could
turn the tides, sure, let's go in there
and Well, the next question is where
would the harp be? Would it be at that
statue room? And it's just that we have
more room to explore if we're not being
chased by skeletons, right? We're not
going to be chased by skeletons. We're
going to be dead or we're gonna we're
gonna be dead. Those are the two
options. Somebody's gonna die tonight.
those your only
choices. Um, so just to just to clarify,
um, Derek, you said that there was a
passage off of that pit trap room with
the dragon head, the blue mist. Uh,
there's actually, uh, you can see
Booth's little yellow door.
Yeah, I think that's supposed to be an
unexplored door. Yeah, I I got to clean
up on my map. It was a rush job. I'm
sorry. I'm double checking with Derek to
update my map. Um, and then you said
there was another one off of the
web-filled passages. Well, the web
filled passages can lead to probably
maybe five or six different locations.
Yeah, there's there's Yeah, those are
just the No, we know there's a door in
that cuz we just we just went we just
felt the breeze and wanted to go up.
Going up. And then the same with the the
uh the skeleton room at the bottom of
the shaft. There's a lot of
possibilities there, too. Yep. Yep.
There's the way the way it works from a
point crawl perspective is there's
chambers and then some a bunch of
chambers connect to like these hub
locations that are things like twisting
corridors, web fil passages, collapsed,
you know, collapsed hallways and those
act as sort of hubs. And when you enter
those hubs, you have to make dunge
engineering checks in order to sort of
go to a specific location. And if you
don't have a specific location in mind,
then when you make your check, depending
on what you get, I take you to a certain
location. And then obviously if you add
it to your map, you can go obviously
fast travel to that location. But in
terms of finding a new one, you have to
actually make a dunge engineering check
off of that location. So yes, the web
filled hallways do lead other places.
Okay. I just want to make sure that I've
got that marked that cuz you know some
of these places don't have exits other
than the ones we know of. Correct. Let's
take these skeletons out next time. That
sounds fun. Yeah. It's like I mean we'll
make Booth be the leader too so it'll be
all his fault.
Well, so let's let's let's actually
break that down. So a kill conflict uses
fighter and it's added to
health. Drive off seven total. Drive off
is fighter added to will. So uh kill
conflict uses health. And then in a
drive off conflict, you use fighter to
attack and faint and will to defend and
and to uh maneuver. But in a kill
conflict, use fighter to attack and
faint still and use health to defend.
And so those those are the same for me.
Both of those would not matter, right?
Cuz you're an alpha. We're about seven
dice regardless. So yeah. Um yeah. So
just so you guys know, my wizard's aegis
spell, uh it's a casting time of three.
Uh, it lasts for one conflict and it
allows me to use the arcanist skill,
which I have a four in, to defend in
place of the required skill or ability
during a kill, capture, or drive off
conflict.
Oh, yeah. But it's even as soon as it's
even crazier than that, though. It's
even crazier than that because Yeah. I
also get plus two successes to defend.
And if my defend action is successful,
the opposing team suffers minus one die
to its next action. What's the I I I
mean what's So I mean that's one spell.
The spell I had last time was I could
create noises that might distract some
living creatures maybe. What's the but
that but that took time for me to cast
in a coma
now. Uh, defend is He came in originally
with party tricks. Yeah, defend. Defend
his health. Yeah, defend his health. But
he's saying if he cast his wizard aus,
he can use his arcanist. Um, yeah. And I
get to use it for
which is the one that lets you get back
your position. Defend. Defend. Yeah.
Well, stop giving Derek the knowhow of
Oh, I know. I'm well aware of what it
does. Like GM going D's like he's
defending. He gave me the spell. I mean,
if if well, but the one that or No, but
remember, I put my cards in before you
guys pick your cards. Now, to be fair, I
know that GM Scott is going. Yeah. So, I
might So, I might put an, you know, I
might put a faint against him because I
think he's going to defend. But then you
guys could be like, I think Dererick
would have put a faint against us
knowing they're going to defend. So, we
should we should attack.
Get them. But then I'm like, wait, but I
know that they're going to attack, so I
should defend. Well, we should also
assume that these skeletons might be
mindless and they would probably use the
same tactics they used last time.
Play them correctly. Yeah, if Derek
plays them correctly. Correct.
I Yeah, I just uh if we have any minus
in our disposition, it's a there's some
sort of compromise. Correct. There you
go. And in a kill conflict, that means
death or injury. So, here's the thing.
If you uh if you lose a kill conflict,
sorry, if you win a conflict, kill
conflict. Uh and you have to minor
compromise. All right. Um so that means
you win but like lose a couple of
points. Uh it could be that the loser
inflicts injury on the winning. So
everybody takes an
injury or the loser kills one of the
winning team.
So if you even lose a point or two in a
kill conflict, one of the options that's
on the table is one of you dies. Mhm.
Just FYI.
I'm not against fighting the skeletons,
but I don't think knowingly going into a
kill conflict is a smart idea. Even if
we have Yeah. My thinking is though is
that if we don't, they're just gonna
stay there. They will always be there.
And I kind of like the idea of us going
in to kill them. Like this isn't like,
oh, now we just might fight each other
to the death. Like we are going in with
the mentality to ambush and maybe kill
them. Fresh. Yeah, we are fresh. So, we
get the extra dice for being full. Some
of some of you are. Yeah. Yeah. So, we
get extra dice on that, too. And did we
did did we still have that holy water or
did we use it? I have holy water. So, I
mean that too. I'm betting.
I'm I'm game. I'm game.
Ryan's like, "My go my my goal be to
make a convinced constitution not to do
that."
Yeah. Look, high-risisk, high reward.
What would G say? Shy boys get no toys.
Yes. Um, yeah, but it is true. You do
have three flasks of holy water and you
know, you could hand them out beforehand
and it gives a plus one S. That's so
that's not a die, that's a plus one
success. I know. We have to, if we did
that, we'd have to really manage our our
disposition. As much as we are managing
their negative, we'd have to be making
sure we're doing things before the
conflict ends that we boost that up like
defending. Yes. Agreed. We'd have to we
and we go in knowing how we're going to
go in. Like we just You'd have to have a
plan is what that's called. Yeah. Yeah.
Now, my favorite part is how Boothy
keeps going, "Guys, I have a plan." And
you're like, "Are you going to share
it?" He's like, "No." He's like, "No."
All ones.
You know what though? If that happened,
you might be like, "Guys, I will
sacrifice my character. I'm the one. I'm
the one that dies though." Back foul
demons of the
abyss, you fool. That is the plan. Oh, I
know what the plan is. The plan is the
invocation to the lords of life and
death. I know what the invocation is.
Oh, yeah. I know what the plan is. All
right. Uh, all right. Well, it is 9:00,
so we're going to wrap it up there. So,
uh, thanks everybody for joining us. I
know a lot couple people were like,
"Derek, where's episode 4?" Uh, and it's
because I heard you mention that. Yeah,
we got delayed uh a month uh because of
of Easter. So, uh now both teams have
actually had four sessions because
Saturday got to go. Now, Saturday should
be playing this next Saturday, but I'm
going to be at PAX East. So, they're
going to be off by one again. So, you
guys are going to get to play you
basically you'll you'll get two times in
a row. They got two times in a row. No,
you guys will get two times in a So you
guys now the time is back correct cuz
cuz of time it will be after PAX. It
will be after PAX. Yeah. So no what I
mean is um we are now heading back to
the dungeon and they're out of town
narratively time related. We pass each
other on the road essentially. Yes, we
passed. Uh not exactly but yeah. So it
you guys are you guys are both basically
you're at the dungeon. Um and they have
left the dungeon and gone to town and
returned and did their stuff. They're
back at the dungeon again. Oh, so
they're technically ahead of us. Okay.
Yeah. I just want to know that we're
we're basically back on the time. Well,
what I'm saying they're ahead of you,
but then after you guys they won't play
and then you guys will play and that'll
put you ahead of them. Yeah. So that'll
put you back ahead of them. Yes.
Exactly. So awesome. Well, thanks
everybody. All right. All right. Well,
thanks everybody. And uh remember, if
you want to see more Torchbearer action,
join the Patreon and that'll get you
access to both campaigns. You can kind
of see it from both sides. Um and
that'll make this way more funny. Uh and
uh you'll get to really you'll get to
enjoy both sides. Like like you get to
you'll get to enjoy how the other group
is like, "How are we going to spend all
of this money in this shitty little
town?"
I
saw I'm waiting to watch the uh the
videos until after we're done.
Yeah, I saw two photos okay that were
shared and one of them was against a
million
bandits. I was like what the heck did
they get themselves into? I was like it
was like you're like they're in a bad
spot and I was like that's not a bad
spot. That's not a bad spot. That's a
terrifying. Yes, that was in town. That
is true. That is true. And then the next
thing I saw was how you how you
demonstrated how everything was being
moved around on our on the you're using
the the town plane as like our like
shared resources like what we have.
Yeah. Yeah. They had so many icons on
their map. I thought you would pulled it
out as like an inventory like here's the
shop, here's what's available like you
did originally. No, that's what they
bought. It was so much stuff. Yeah.
Yeah. They they were bragging that they
got they're on easy mode and they got a
lot of they got a lot of money to spend.
Yeah. What's what's up with this? Are
they just better than us? Listen, you
got, you know, watch watch. I think I
think they went through that room that
we went into and they went through every
single little trap thing and picked up
every single
golded I think they have that kid's
head. I think they took the head.
They're like, you know, we told the
head. That's what we told. Um, your head
as a cup or something like that. Yeah,
it's um it is it it it's it's really
funny the the two the two ways the ways
that everybody's crossing paths. It's
really funny. I think uh I think Derek
is is a jackal and
hydem we've got the hide or Yeah, we had
the got the bad side. Um I I don't think
we've done badly. We we've just rolled
poorly. We got we got behind the
eightball a couple of times. I think
that was the thing. We got behind, but
now we're going in. What? No. What is
What is interesting about the Saturday
group is that um uh they keep quitting.
No, not exactly. No. Is that Well, they
Yeah, they've had they they've had a lot
of turnover. So, like in in in some ways
like they've been able to be like, "Hey,
new person, you you should definitely
have these skills because we we've
learned that we don't need, you know, we
don't have them and we need them. Grab a
crap ton of wine on the way in." So,
they've kind of like been able to like
dial in their party a little bit better.
So, that's But um anyways, all right
everybody. Uh we So if you want to see
all that, join the Patreon. You get
both. Um and then uh of course obviously
all the other cool benefits. And if
you're not already, twitch.tv/night's
the last call and uh give me give me a
prime sub if you if you if you're if
you're willing to do and you want to be
gracious and I'd really appreciate that.
All right, everybody. Thanks a lot and
we'll see you next time.
