Good morning everyone. Welcome to the
Nights of Last Call. My name is Derek
Melinda with a very quick update about
Daggerheart in particular the way that
folks may be able to play Daggerheart
online in the very very near future as
in today. So Daggerheart today announced
um that they are going to be supporting
an additional VTT. So, they made an
update to their community gaming license
that now includes a list of whitelisted
VTT supports. Currently, that includes
Roll 20, Demilane, and now includes
Foundry. And that means that uh some of
the community teeth nashing about not
wanting to support the game via roll 20
and the demilane integration or just not
being comfortable with the roll 20 and
the subscription model and instead
wanting to use the foundry model is now
being supported. Now the good news for
this is that the folks the very
industrious and very hardworking folks
who have been working on the Dagger
Heart Foundry module are basically done
and they actually have a complete model
uh and system created. The problem is
they were just waiting to do the right
thing and get permission from Darington
Press to release it because Darington
Press's community gaming license did not
give explicit permission to these folks.
But the good news is this is an example
of the character sheet is that the
foundry module system module for
Daggerheart is basically good to go. And
once they get a few things in a row
because now that the community gaming
license has been updated, they'll be
able to release Daggerheart for Foundry.
Now, this is great news for all of us
who really have come to love and use
Foundry. We use Foundry pretty much
exclusively here at Nights of Last Call.
Uh we use it for our Northern Reaches
games. We use we have a massive
integration with the forge in order to
host a variety of community games. So
we're really excited to be able to do
this. Um I think it's a great move from
them and again it shows that Darington
Press is willing and able to listen to
the needs of the community and they are
trying to adapt and adopt as quickly as
they can to the well probably
surprisingly large amount of traffic
that they're getting on this game. I
think it's a really good sign for the
game going forward and I'm personally
excited to get some games of Daggerheart
going in Foundry. So, let us know what
you think. Check us out in the links
down below. We have a massive
Daggerheart playlist or you can find us
over at patreon.com/nightsoflastall
or right here on YouTube or Twitch.
Either way, thanks for stopping by and
we'll see you next time on Nights of
Last Call. Take care everybody.
