like that. So, welcome back, gentlemen,
to session session number five of
Torchbearer. So, we're in the we're in
the back half now. Um, you guys have uh
you know, uh my my goal with all of this
obviously was to sort of get you, you
know, somewhat familiar with the the
process of the game. Uh just understand
its its components and its procedures.
And I definitely wanted to sort of have
and probably get to around level three
is kind of what I was kind of expecting.
I think that's even what Luke says in
the in the U game book. But I definitely
wanted to sort of have an experience of
like going to the dungeon, camping,
going to the dungeon, camping, going to
town, going back to the dungeon, maybe,
you know, kind of contextualizing what
the game is like after you've restocked,
maybe go back to town another time. So,
we're we're right on we're right on
schedule for where I want to be. And uh
between you and the other group, uh the
dungeon is beginning to become explored
and mapped. Of course, sadly, um the
mage of the other group of the Saturday
group has decided to leave the campaign.
So, that's another Saturday person gone.
And of course, Thadius uh aka Garrick
the mage uh had the map. So, heard about
sad. So sad. So, so in a twist of in a
in an unbelievable twist of events, the
Saturday group, the Saturday group for
once uh is actually had a stroke of bad
luck. So,
so yeah, the first what three sessions
we did not have one and they did and now
we have one and they don't. That's
correct. Um, so for those of you uh
rejoining us, by the way, uh, shout out
to the person on YouTube who left a
lovely comment for us. I'm I'm assuming
they were being snarky, which is fine.
Uh, they said, "I've heard of people
turning role playing games into board
games, but I had never seen it until
now." Very odd. And it was a comment on
our last video. Hilarious. Um yes to be
clear there is no board so it cannot be
a board game but uh no is virtual. It is
a virtual board. Um no but it is a
highly proceduralized game. Speaking of
we are back. So that means that we have
that opportunity here to start off with
a prologue and that is going to allow
someone to alleviate a condition. Now
right now the group has come straight
out of town. They've made their way back
to the circle the ruined circle of
Caravanal and they stand on the
precipice of re-entering the dungeon.
And currently right now, uh, they're
actually in fairly decent shape in terms
of conditions. Doesn't look like anyone
has a condition. So, uh, the only thing
that you might want to do is give the
prologue is if you wanted to recover a
point of text nature,
which I have no points of text nature.
It looks like only Bob does. I gave it
last time and I do not care to do it
again. All right. Bob gave it last time,
so no one can give it. And it looks like
no one. Oh, wait, wait, you're
completely burdenless.
Yes. All right. And GF Scott, I will be
I am planning on giving the prologue
next time. Okay. Uh
epilog uh and GMF Scott, you obviously
have all your memory palace filled as
well. I do. So, it actually doesn't
matter. One slot. It doesn't actually
matter who gives the prologue. So, if
somebody wants and it could be even be
bad because it won't matter.
your your your prologue was so bad you
forgot your spell. Um but uh since we
don't have anyone who could do a
prologue, I will just quickly summarize.
Uh the group went to town last time. Uh
that was kind of the long and the short
of it. Uh they strategically broke up
their um their coins. They made several
purchases in town to refill supplies.
They uh were able to make good on many
of their purchases. And many members of
the group were able to get their
resources score up from zero to one.
Maybe even somebody got a resource score
of two. And is that Urber?
Some of us are still at zero. Uh yeah.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Uber got a resources
score of two. So good for Urber.
Carnalas, not so much. Um you're still
at zero. You didn't make a single
successful check. Uh not for we only had
the one check. Well, some of us only got
the one check at the end. Well, right.
As I'm saying, some people bought stuff,
too. And then nothing like I didn't do
any of that. Meanwhile, uh Amos and Tain
were able to uh sort of do handle some
spell-casting duties and get their
burden removed in the case of the
Theurge and uh craft some scrolls in the
case of GM Scott, leading to one of the
more hilarious instances of scroll
crafting I've seen in a long time where
the group was collectively scavenging
the town for bits and pieces of paper to
write this stuff on. We also uh somehow
threw together uh a rope, right, out of
spider. silk rope by spider silk rope
that was the weavers just on the edge of
town. Right. That's right. The the
weavers who just who helped you guys out
on the end of town that we befriended
for turning in the body of for turning
in poor shepherd boy Kurt. Kurt that was
abused by the other group. Right. Uh and
at the end of the day, uh the group was
able to refill their supplies. I'm going
to shoot over to the inventory screen so
the people at home can see this. So what
do we got? Well, uh, like right now we
are sitting at,
uh, well, looks like we got a nice
little, uh, assortment of stuff here.
Everyone has a full inventory. The water
jugs and skins are full. Um, the group
has doesn't on paper, they don't have
enough food, but they're relying on the
pre prodigious cooking skills of Saddak
Saddle Belly to uh, turn those fresh
rations into uh, complete meals at camp.
They've got uh somewhere between 10 to
12 torches. They've still got some sacks
uh of uh of uh for for carrying out
loot. And of course uh everyone is fully
re-equipped in terms of armors, helmets,
and the like. So they're in a pretty
good spot. In fact, two people, Berber
and Saddok, have the fresh condition so
long as they they they will keep that
until they gain a new condition.
Meanwhile, everybody um is sitting on a
good bank of Persona points and uh
Saddok even has five [ __ ] fate
points.
So, get to it,
buddy. So, we should be able to pull out
some nice uh some nice whamies here. So,
that's the prologue. So you guys can uh
and of course after the town events were
completed, they made their way back to
the ruined circle of Carvanal because
they are still under the Guillas effect
from the spirit of the reoquaryy which
is to say that they cannot doawle else
they will suffer uh conditions until
they eventually die. Um because they
have become honorbound to and duty bound
to seek out uh the uh and and deal with
the menace of this dungeon so that they
can require the dragon bone dagger, the
dragon bone blade. So that takes us to
setting goals, updating beliefs, and
updating
instincts. So as a reminder to
everybody, if you accomplish your goal,
you'll receive a persona point. If you
make good progress towards your goal,
you'll receive a fate point. If you take
strong action in line with your beliefs,
you will earn a fate point. And if you
take extremely strong, really
really hammer it home uh action against
your belief, you will earn a person a
persona point and will have to change
your belief. And lastly, your instinct
allows you to take an action for free.
Uh in fact, you kind of don't have a say
in it. However, if that action does help
the group, you'll earn a fate point at
the end of the
session.
So, we discussed briefly at the end of
last session what you guys wanted to do,
and you guys have kind of talked a
little bit about this out of uh out of
the game. So, where are we? What are we
doing today? What are the goals, folks?
I think I have a goal. Yeah. Someone's
goal better to get that necklace off
that skeleton. I I I think my goal is to
cleanse the bottom of the well. Yeah.
Okay.
Of of its
vile undead
inhabitants, if that is acceptable.
Yeah, that sounds like a good goal.
Could I have I will explore
Alor whatever the name of this dungeon
is more. Um I would be a little bit more
specific than just explore it. Um you
know explore it for
what? Right. It was a harp
violin thing we were looking for. There
is a harp. Yes. Okay.
Yes.
Euphonius harp of the grave.
I thought for sure Matt was going for
the necklace. So, I'm going to make my
goal to get that necklace off the
skeleton.
Uh looking his goal is to find the harp.
Yep.
Saddak
is I don't think is shares the
enthusiasm of of going down there with
the intent that the rest of the party
has. So
his goal
news is um is I don't know. I want to
say not die, but that is not No, that's
think that's a given. That's kind of a
given.
Something with the group. Again,
remember it's got to be something
proactive, right? It's got to be
something that you can work towards,
something that you can accomplish, and
something that you can take action
towards. That's the most important part.
Can I say uh find uh unexplored rooms?
No, because that's kind of like what Ber
was saying. Yeah. Yeah. Right.
Um, I I f what I find interesting is the
conflict between what what what they
want to do and what what Sa Saddak wants
to do, but I don't know how to put that
into a goal. Um, because um
James Scott, what about you? Yeah, my
goal would be to successfully cast a
spell.
Uh, well, uh, you know, you know, yeah,
I mean, you could probably put something
like that. Uh, but you'd have to be like
a little bit more like, you know, like,
uh, my goal is to, you know, prove the
value of my new magics or something like
And that's kind of what it was going to
be because, you know, my belief then is
that I need to gain strength because
until then I was horrible. Now I have
this newfound strength. I need to prove
that this is actually worthwhile. Um so
something like uh I don't know help
defend the party by casting wizards
aegis or
um you know in a in a combat. Yeah. I
mean how specific you need to be. But
that's intent. I mean, yeah. I mean, I
think that a specific goal is better
than, you know, it should be smart,
right? Specific, measurable, actionable,
reasonable, and timely. So, you know,
like, um, you know, um, you know, drive
back the drive back evil with my wizards
aegus. You know, that's a totally
acceptable goal. You want to make it
sound cool.
I do. All right. Uh, something with the
the Guas is something like, uh, get the
group back on track with the Guas. uh uh
work towards uh completing the
gears is to make progress. Yeah. But the
thing is is like how would you how would
we judge if that was successful or not?
Uh find treasure.
Um well starting to sound like me now.
Yeah. Well, yeah. I'm just having
trouble. That's okay. I'm just I'm I'm
just grasping. It's all good, dude. I'm
just being stupid. Um, yeah, there's no
there's no, you know, there's no record.
So, we have a harp. We don't have
anything else. Um, to prove our value to
the spirit,
right? Uh, I mean, yeah, I mean, if if
you know, I mean, obviously the spirit
has its its goal, right? Or like you
have its mission or whatever like that
in order to get that done. So, you could
also like do something like with traps
and stuff that, you know, I don't want
to fall into another pit trap. You could
be like uh you know making sure that the
party does not succumb to any like
downfalls in the trap area. That's so my
uh I I I can't say like uh to make sure
our our uh my goal is to make uh sure
our our stomachs are full and then we're
No, because that that that's kind of
double dipping with your with your
instinct. So yeah, generally speaking,
no. I just thought it'd be cool if you
were if you were like saved us by uh
making sure some a trap doesn't uh come
out. But that's that's more of an
instinct than it is a Yeah, that that's
what I have for instinct. Always search
for traps and doorways. I'm going to
debo this skeleton's chain real quick
though.
Yeah, I guess I'll just say uh to uh
uh is to prove our val uh to our
worthiness to the spirit. Okay, that's
fine.
And once things become clear, maybe I I
maybe then I change. I mean, it's one of
those things where I mean, it could
happen. I mean, obviously reasonably if
the spirit's like, you have proved
yourself worthy, then you obviously
accomplished your goal and earned your
persona point. He said the thing there
might something might happen that might
I might not complete it but Right. But
you could earn progress towards it.
Yeah. Okay. Cool. All right. So, uh, all
beliefs and instincts are good. We don't
update any of those. Um, I do want to
change in instinct. Okay. Potentially.
Uh, I love the flavor of I always
volunteer for the dirty job, but has
been kind of uh hit and miss as to
whether I can get anything to justify
it. Yep. Uh, so I'd like to change it to
something to do with uh healing in camp.
Uh, treat the wounded, treat the ill.
What do we camp?
Yeah. Uh, you wanna you wanna Yes. tend
tend to the tend to the ill or tend to
the hurt when when we get to camp.
That's totally
fine. I had a hurt. Well, you guys get
to it. I'll worry about it then. Oh,
there it is.
Otherwise, I'm good to go. Okay,
perfect. All right. Yeah. Can I assume
that all of the uh uh uses of the traits
that we did in town cleared as well? Oh,
yeah. Yes. Everything everything should
be cleared. Everything should be
cleared. You keep any checks that you
have. It doesn't look like you guys have
any checks, but um if you've earned
checks, but uh you mean like the checks
for our traits? Yeah, right. I cleared
one of those. No, you keep you get to
keep it. Okay. I have one then. Yeah.
Now, you could still you could still now
you you can still earn checks from that
trait this session. You can still earn
checks from a straight each session, but
if you had trades left over from the
last time, I would mark it on your uh I
would mark it on your sheet. Thank you.
All right. So, we also can see here that
we have a little bit of an overlay. This
is
a this is the uh our map the map of of
uh of Taine.
And uh so here's where we're at. You
guys are at the circle of Caravanel. You
uh have access to via your map. You have
access to your uh superseeker camp. You
have access to the well shaft which will
take you down into the uh ancient tomb.
You can also go down partially down the
shaft to the stairway which will lead
you back to the hall of Azeroths which
you also can then take to enter to the
web filled halls or re-enter into the
reoquary vault. Now, you do know of a
statue hall that exists somewhere off of
the uh uh Hall of Azerists. However,
that is not on your map. You know it's
there, but you'd have to find your way
there again with dunge engineering
checks. It's not on your map. There's
also a door, unexplored door, uh still
in the hall of Azeris, which you've
never gone through. There's also several
there's ways out there's other passages
out of stuff like this well too that
you've not been to. Many of those uh
hallways go to a variety of
locations, including deeper.
Yeah, I say go deeper. The good stuff's
got to be at the bottom. All right.
Well, you guys have one turn uh down
from when you left town to get to here.
That was the Pathfinder test to get
here. So, you have one uh turn down on
the grind, and we will begin the
adventuring phase. All right, Sunday
crew, go forth. And torchbear.
Bear is that our party captain, right?
Um, yeah. I guess this is a new
expedition. Does Does someone else want
to be the leader
besides
Amos? This this new powerful wizard
might want to take the lead.
Remember, the wizard is fine with Demos.
All right. It sounds like you are still
the party leader, The So I wasn't never
I was never the party leader. I think I
was the party leader because he was a
conflict leader a handful of times. Got
it. All right. Well, in that case, Bob,
you are the party leader. Well, I will
always have my friends back. So, and
keep in mind that if you're the party
leader, you get you get you get power
cuz I I I Bob gets to break ties and I I
basically will listen to him. So, he can
uh he can get to he gets to push the
agenda a little bit. Well, last time we
left off, um, Amos made a convincing
argument about heading down to some
explored areas that we've had before.
Knowing what we know now and meta
torchbearer experience and how the cards
work, uh, we feel like with our spells
and, uh, fully arrested, we could maybe
catch the enemy by surprise.
before maybe Kronelis and other party
members uh would have been fearful of
the fight but everyone but uh Saddak
seemed eager to jump in and so we are
reluctantly pulling Saddak with us to
depth and I am going for that gold chain
today. So I think Ber has him in the
sack, right?
Uh he has what in the sack? The
halfling. No, that's gone. We delivered
him. No, the halfling.
The halfling cuz he doesn't want to go
fight the skeletons. I threw him in the
sack. Yeah. Oh, I thought you said he
had a sack. I was like, I'm missing the
joke somewhere. Yeah, sorry. I also I
got it. Well, cuz you you got it.
Yeah. You said we're dragging the
halfling and I said, "No, I thought
Arbor had him in the stack." God. Is the
rope still there from the last party?
Uh, no. It's not. Well, luckily we have
this Yeah, we have this new rope, right?
Luckily, we have this map that tells us
we can just teleport there. Yeah, we
don't we don't need to worry about that.
Well, that's and that's Well, that's
what's very clear about this. It is not
teleportation. Um, if you did not have
say a rope or the the the uh the hall or
the tunnel had collapsed, then you could
not reacess it. you still the fiction
still has to allow for your transferral
for through it. So if for example the
other group had blown up the shaft then
I would say yeah it's on your map but
you you still can't just teleport down
the well shift. So it's not literally a
teleportation. Um so in the fiction and
of course doesn't take any time. So you
guys are using your supplies and heading
down the well. Yes. Okay. In that case
knowing what we're going to get into
you proceed down into the Well, someone
needs to probably light a torch. Hold
on. Before we start thinking about this,
it is pitch black.
I don't like the torch. You're going to
wait. I was before I was just wondering
when Amos decides to, you know. Yeah. I
think uh you'll you'll know when I do
something. Get ready with the holy
water, too, I think.
Yeah.
All right. Um so we got a torch lit.
Yeah. Uh, and light torch.
All right.
I'm floating. This room looks familiar.
You know, you make your way uh you guys
make your way down the ancient crumbling
stone in a much safer and slower
methodology fashion than you did last
time. And once again, you enter into an
ancient tomb filled with cracked and
crumbling
sarcophagi and having several large
arched columned entryways in and out of
the chamber. Large broken pillars still
support an ancient arched roof and
strange hieroglyphics are incar across
various various portions of the walls.
Here the room is full of debris from
partially collapsed ceilings and
centuries of
earthquakes. And the room as you enter
into it is quiet as the grave.
As
quiet as the shattered remains of
skeletal remains that lay scattered
about the roof.
I told you. I told you they'd kill it on
easy mode. Yeah. Yeah.
And I'm guessing the chain's not there.
The torque. A cursory examination, Bob,
does not give you any indication or sign
of uh of any glittering torqus. I'm
going to be deboing someone else's
chain. Can I uh uh look around uh and do
I see any dead adventurers? Does it look
like it was a kill conflict?
Yeah. So, Saddak, u you know, no test.
You're just looking around. Um, you
don't see any signs of of recent dead
recently dead humans. You do see what
what you judge to be the remains of
these former skeletal warriors. Um, you
can see their sort of crumbled forms.
You see their discarded uh ancient
weapons that are sort of broken
underneath their shattered bodies. You
see a surprising lack of blood.
Easy mode. Yep. In fact, if you if you
if you had to guess,
it looks like maybe their elf went uber
muso mode and completely eliminated all
of the skeletons without the group
taking a single point of disposition
loss. Wow. Easy mode. I don't understand
how they do it.
Cuz Derek likes them better than us.
Yeah, because we have a Because we have
a Right. Think about who your think
about who your elf is and then think
about who their elf is. Their elf is
physical terrain. Their elf is Darth
Gorlock. Um yeah, it's so true. That's
not even fair. I still can't shoot him.
He's like
Yeah, their group has legless. We have a
Keebler elf.
Damn. It's it's it's sad cuz it's true.
Um so Amos comes down. He's like, "Oh,
yeah. Yeah, you come down like you're
like ready to bring the wrath of the
gods to and then it's like no, it's just
empty. Um, you just stand there with
your fists in the air. Where are my damn
skeletons?
Just as it echoes up and down the Well,
I got to clean this place of evil. Yeah,
we need there's more evil. Yeah. So, uh,
you know, looking around, um, again, you
do see that there is some strange runic
writing along the walls. has any kind of
religious exper religious meaning to it.
Um, yeah, go ahead and make a test as
you begin to sort of try to decipher
this. Yes, Jim Scott. May I aid him?
Yeah, with scholar. With scholar? Yes.
Would this be a theologian?
Yes. This is May I aid him with my not
my wise of Al Marth?
No, because you keep butchering the name
of the dungeon.
Is it like Amar? It's it's tall. It's
Tall Amroth. But yes, Tal Amro. There
you go. Yes, you can aid with your wise.
Uh GM Scott, you can help with your
scholar. But again, remember, describe
how you're helping. Yep. I'll be uh
helping him decipher these symbols based
on any ancient texts that I've read that
uh you know, aren't necessarily
religious text. You know, maybe some of
these are outside of the religious uh
uh genre. Yep. Absolutely. Uh Boothy,
this is going to be an independent OB 2.
That looked pretty good. Hey, you got
it. All right. Nice. So, that is a turn.
Hold on a
sec. Where's my turn? You want to put
torch timer on Sodak as well? Oh, yeah.
I forgot he lit he lit one of them bad
boys. It's been a long time since you
guys had It's not automated, you know,
like these other VTTs. I know. I know. I
know. I don't even know. What are we
even doing here? Right. What are we even
doing? How can you play this game if
it's not automated? I mean, just looking
at that background though is very
enticing. Um, light track torch. Clock
grind. I got to find it. One second.
Here we go. Clock
torch. Okay.
All
right, I dropped my thing. There we go.
All right. Um,
so you spend a few moments in the
flickering torch light, um, looking over
the winding script of runes here. And uh
GM Scott is able to uh Tain is able to
uh offer you a few translations and
various possible um you know
interpretations of what some of these
symbols mean. But you begin to
understand what you are looking at
here. This was not a
tomb. This was a guard room. And these
skeletal warriors were bound here in
death to keep something bound.
And the golden torqus that they all
wore were important to that
binding. And you can tell that whatever
ancient religious ward was binding
something here has begun to
fail. And from your estimation, Boothby,
it is going to fail in five
phases. So that means like you guys are
in adventuring phase now. So when you
move to camp, that's one phase. If you
then go to camp back to adventuring,
that's the second phase. If you then go
from adventuring back to town, that's a
third phase. So phase is the entire time
you're in town. The runes become less
detailed, but they speak of a powerful
evil, ancient, and from the
underworld that these uh warriors
essentially gave their lives in order to
sort of lock away or bind away.
This be something that an elf would
remember.
Yes, it could be.
What this ancient evil might be? Yeah. A
dragon. I mean,
before I dig like the dwarfs do, this is
actually a good use of remembering, not
like what did I have for breakfast
yesterday. It's like, yeah, this is like
looking back into the ancient, you know,
you're thousands of years old, right?
This is you looking back across the, you
know, eons of your life and and trying
to, you know, recall this.
Well, um, yeah, I mean, if I I'm going
to try to, uh, remember what I've heard
in stories of, you know, ancient fairy
tales or ancient, um, uh, I would say
fairy tales, but, you know, things we've
heard about don't don't go digging too
deep in the, you know, you never know
when you're going to disturb a blah blah
blah. Yep. Um, yeah. So, this is nature.
This is a nature check for you. Yeah.
Okay. Independent. Yep. I wise him with
Tal Moroth. You're got You know what?
You're close enough. Yes. I will give it
to you this time. Hey, don't mess with
my dyslexia. Damn it.
Yes. Yes. You You Ber is still very uh
wise and in the ways of literally wise
in the ways of Tal Amroth.
It's It's an elf name. I'm a dwarf. It
takes me a while. All right. It's fair.
They have weird pronunciations.
Um, I'm like, didn't it? Call it Call it
Sounds. Call it the dwarf name Karak
Tang, which means [ __ ] house. Oh,
god. Kakong. You got it.
What is the OB? The OB is going to be
two, Bob. Oh gosh. Can I um use my first
born against myself? If you could
possibly figure out a way, why? Well,
isn't firstborn the elven? Um, yeah, but
why would that be bad when you're trying
to use your elven nature to remember
something? I would think because he was
second born. Thinking I'm going away
from my elven nature. Um, no, but you're
not. You're leaning into it. You're in I
guess in this specific instance. Yeah.
Yeah. But I'm but I'm literally trying
to get away from progressing to an elf.
I'm trying to go the other way. I
although this is definitely a good place
to try to earn a check. I could agree
with you. But I'm just saying using
firstborn in that way doesn't really
make sense. This is literally what a
firstborn elf would do. Okay. Um yeah, I
don't really want to use column here. So
I'm going to go with no trait. Okay. So
six versus two. Yep. And rolling it up.
And then uh probably mark a pass here.
Yep. Mark a pass on your nature. Yep.
Got it. All right. So that's another
turn.
Hey, our luck is improving. Yes. You
rolled six dice and and managed to get
two successes. Mhm. Um uh Karanolas
spends a few long moments achingly in
this ancient place as the torch goes
out. Um so uh I don't know at the exact
time I tell them the name of this beast.
Right. As the torch as the torch begins
to flicker. I don't know if you guys
want to use another torch.
Um well I mean it's not dangerous down
here anymore.
lighting a second torch. Yeah. Yeah. Is
there Did they camp here by any chance?
We got any tracks we can follow them and
take our take our necklace back? Hold
on. Let me tell you the story. And
Tanalas, you now
recall as you, you know, sort of sink
back through the memories in this place,
this writing, this feeling, the ancient
elven spirits here, and you now remember
the elves great folly.
For
when the great
sorcerer
Poria unlocked the power of the draconic
magics, the elves in their desperation
turned to darker
magics and summoned a great and powerful
demon of the ancient world to try to
defeat him.
And while ultimately the battle was won
and Poria was sealed away in the depths
of Tal Amroth, the elves blunder would
end up costing them their great
civilization
and countless countless hundreds of
elves lost their lives attempting to
seal this great demon away. So the the
prairie is the sorcerer or that's the
demon. Poria is the elven sorcerer who
unlocked the draconic magic and then
beca and then became mad with power and
then started using this place to sort of
like as it as his domain. And so the
elves basically unleashed a balrog to
try to like take him out. Mhm. You know,
demons and dragons. Bob, I I'm on board.
I understand. It was done deliberately.
Uh the problem is that that uh that is
that that is the problem is that the um
the power of these two ancient evils are
awakening again at once. Um so the
dragon's waking up and this demon seems
to be waking up. Yes. Well, now it is.
It's the it's the sorcerer, right? Well,
it's a sorcerer. It's a it's a sorcerer
dragon.
Oh, worse. Wait. So, because the the
other group was here. Yeah. And those
they took the torqus. Yep. They were
integral. Okay. Yep. Yep. Now, to be
fair, uh think of it as um uh this mean
may mean nothing to think of them as
Queen Delar seals on the Dark Ones
prison. If that means anything to
anybody. I looked at Bob's character.
All right. There you go. It means Wait,
wait. Bob, did you understand that nerd
reference? Uh if it was a Wheel of Time
seal reference like to the I don't
remember what the material is, but Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. Also called the dark one.
Yeah. Yeah, there you go. Yeah, they're
break they're breaking. You know, they
don't hold what they once did, right?
So, the seal has not the seal is not
completely destroyed, but in removing
these guardians, these elves who
basically gave their lives in order to
sort of seal away the demon and removing
the torqus, um the the those wards,
those protective energies have started
to fail.
Was there four or five skeletons last
time? There were four.
Wonder if these uh torqus are in
town and go get them back and bring them
back.
I look at Bob's character and go, "You
sure you don't want to go to that new
world you keep talking about? And can I
come with you?" It would be just like
Nickerbe to unleash a evil.
I feel like Vess had a had a hand in
this as well. Now
Boothie, you do believe due to your
check
that you could potentially
receal these
wards with a uh what's the what is it
ritualist?
Yeah, you with a ritualist check.
However, the ob is very high. The ob is
lower for each torque that you have.
Saw that coming. So, in theory, you
could try this without the torqus and
just try to be, you know, like, you
know, channel the power of the gods and
go go ham. But, uh, yeah. And it
requires the sacrifice of a dwarf, a
halfling, and an elf. No, no. Four
dwarves or four humans. That's Yeah,
that that Yeah, that would be good
payback for Bob. Yeah, that would be
good payback for Bob. Um, yes, I should
also point that out. Booth B. Um, the OB
also gets lower if for each person
you're willing to sacrifice. So,
so, uh, good to know.
I'm sure there's Yeah, the writings the
right the writings on the writings on
the wall were very explicit about that
part. Booth be
we just kind of look at each other,
right? We won't we won't talk about that
part, right? There's this there's this
well there's this like nudge nudge wink
wink. Yeah, we humans and then we look
at her ber. Yeah. Yeah.
Now, I don't want to
uh I don't want to help you guys too
much, but you know, I need to harp. Less
less you guys uh you know, accuse me of
of Saturday favoritism. Now, that's not
the accusation. It's just a fact. Uh
listen, listen. Don't hate the player,
hate the game, you know, like those
those guys those guys are just better. I
mean, what do you want? Uh for me. Um
yeah, that's why they keep dropping off.
Um
Why don't they leave? You know what?
They they have nothing more to prove.
They didn't have that much talent on one
team. Yeah. Right. You know, like they
they had to break it up. They had to
break up the big banks. You know, it was
it was too much talent. Uh yeah, those
guys got what they want for they came
for and then they were like influx of
fresh wine every time. So, what I was
going to say is you guys have a unique
situation here where if you guys take
one more thing that requires a turn, you
guys are going to grind, which will give
everybody hungry and thirsty and get rid
of your guys' fresh conditions. But Bob
has a check. So you could go
camp. Um, and if you camp now, you'll
have one check and instincts, but uh it
would reset the grind and potentially
keep Ryan and and Laughing Outlaw fresh.
So just something to consider.
In camping, you know, when we camp, my
instinct is to make update the map,
which means I can update it to town
because right now we don't have a map to
town. Right. That's fair. Yeah. And now
Ryan, you would cook, but if you don't
cook and group takes a turn, everyone's
going to become hungry and thirsty
anyways. So, but that instinct won't
help you. But then people won't be
hungry and thirsty. So, it is kind of,
you know, philosophically the same
thing. So, it's up to you guys. That's
just I'm just letting you know like from
the way the mechanics work. What are you
guys thinking? Should we post up camp in
this area? I think No, you're on the
map. You could go back up the shaft to
your secret camp or perfectly super
secret camp. Mhm. Cuz you're on the map.
As long as you're not in the gives us
that bonus. See, I knew it wasn't that
big a big of a difference if we went
down or up.
My brother was here first.
I've been looking forward to this for
two weeks. Well, the funny thing
is you guys were the group that went
first. So, like it's literally they're
they are just like you guys were like,
"Oh, let's go this way." And they're
like, "Oh, let's go the other way."
They're like, "Oh, look at all this
treasure.
We fell down here. We got off on the
wrong foot." Yeah, that's true. You guys
did have a much rougher entry into the
dungeon than they did. So, there is
that. um with our with our map. Um um
Tane,
uh we we could we could go in a
different way and or go, you know, go in
a different way to a new area. Um is
there a place that we are looking for
maybe you highlighting? Let me actually
bring you guys up. Let me bring up
I got to bring up Let me show you the
map. I got to bring up the map that
Derek is bringing up. Oh, no. I'm
bringing up my map. Um Oh, okay. Well,
let's look at it. Um Okay. So um from
here actually you guys from this chamber
there are actually sort of two ways that
you can go. If you leave the one way you
know that that leads into the web filled
passages that you guys have been through
before. There is the other way of the
other side of leaving this chamber
through the other stoned uh columned
archway and that leads into um those
endless empty halls which is what you
guys were running through the one time
and that's where you guys encountered
that corridor of statues. So you can you
can leave from here either you can go
into the web filled passages which is on
your map and you could go there and you
do have a camp there. Um, or you could,
uh, head out of this into sort of what I
call the empty halls, which is, you
know, basically they're not web filled,
but they're just like endless long
corridors that connect everything
together, and that might lead to
somewhere else as well. And you know
that there is the corridor of statues
there. You've seen them when you were
fleeing, but you you would have to make
a dungeon engineer check to get back
there.
But that would also grind you.
Yeah. So, if we go camp in our super
secret safe camp, Yep. guys, then we can
cuz I imagine that we we we get down
here, we're all excited, we're ready to
go to fight these guys. There's nothing
here. So, it's
likew what? So, we need to regroup. We
need to get keep our mental freshness
going. So, I think camping is a good
idea. Now, um I'm also going to throw
another thing under you at the bus.
Remember, you you and Booth just
deciphered that in five phases, right,
the demon will be released. If you go
camp, that is phase one. That was a
phase. Yeah. So, uh Oh, Malf Malfcor is
coming. That's all. Oh my gosh. It's a
good thing the other team didn't have to
worry about the consequences of their
actions. No, they did not. That was Hey,
gold, let's leave. They are very
smart. They are very, very smart.
Um because I ultimately I mean we need
to find this harp. Yeah. And we can't
waste a lot of time. We have five phases
to find its harp. The harp is to What is
the harp is just to get is to get the
dagger to slay the dragon. The demon is
coming. The demon is on a clock. Yeah.
Is the dragon the dragon sorcerer? Yeah.
Or is the dragon a different dragon? No,
that that it's the dragon sorcerer.
Okay. So, we would if we were able to
receal it, we wouldn't even need the d
demon or dragon dagger. No, you're
there's two threats. There is a demon
that is going to break out in five
phases. Okay. There is a dragon sorcerer
also down here that you have to use the
dagger to kill. Oh, that one is un
dagger dragon sorcerer. Totally problem.
Sounds like we need to free the dragon
sorcerer to fight the demon. Well, to be
fair, that's what the elves that's what
the elves originally tried. That was
their original plan. So, you know,
listen, stranger things have happened. I
And it worked well for them. And you
know, you could What are you going to
do? We're going to convince We're going
to haggle with the demon. Listen, uh, we
got a deal for you. Uh, so we have this
other party that's like on easy mode and
getting a little too much GM um,
favoritism. We offer you that. Go after
them. Yeah. If we did go back to camp
and we camped and obviously that your
instinct triggers uh, Tain, uh, is there
any benefit Amos to trying to get these
torqus? Maybe maybe they're in town
because then we could fast travel to
town, can't we? the we so I'll tell you
this they won't be because remember the
last people to play was you because I
didn't play the Saturday crew behind
because they now have swapped because I
didn't play with them last week because
I was in I was in packs. So the last
people to play was you so they haven't
actually they have not so the other team
is still in the dungeon here somewhere.
That is correct. So Oh, we got to find
them. That is correct. They You guys are
both currently in the dungeon. We have
to find them and raid them. Yep. Find
them and steal. Can we frack them? Is it
possible? Can we do a a pathfinder
tracking or dunge engineering tracking
to find them and raid them? Um, scout
check. I think it would be scout, I
think. Um, I don't know.
Yes, possibly.
I mean, and I know that you like direct
PvP wasn't I mean, look, if they're in
the dungeon and I have to play them as
NPCs, then I have to play them as NPCs.
It's just this, you know. You know what
would really what would really get them?
What would really get them? If we find
them and we do a convince argument and
win.
Yeah, they can't come after us now. We
convinced them. I'm like, guys, you
don't have the torqus. Why? The other
party convinced you that they were
better to have.
Maybe they didn't know the folly they
were getting into. I don't know. They
may not have deciphered the runes.
That's That's so funny. Um but yeah, so
I guess our two options in my opin uh
that I see camp, uh we can go back up to
camp or we can go into the web filled
passages to camp or we can try maybe
this new I mean not it's new but it's uh
the endless corridors or something like
that if you guys want. I don't know what
you guys' thoughts are.
Or we waste enough phases so that when
the Saturday group plays the gym just
pops out on top of their face. We just
we just go to camp at the exact moment
the fifth phase is about to end and then
just wash our hands of it like they did.
We've only played for an hour. Time to
do four phases back to back and then
Yes. I uh because I'm I I don't mind
going back up to camp. I I you know my
my whole goal here has been crushed in
front of me. um that this has not
happened and I would like to explore
further. But I understand that some of
you are feeling so good and and driven
right now that I feel like we should we
should maybe uh take a take a breather
like uh Tain said and regroup. Yeah. So
what we gain by camping is
uh potential mapping for you guys. We
stay fresh. Yes. There you go. There
there there's our there's our And I have
one camper. There's our there's our
enemies facing off
like dungeon meshy. Sadak and Nick.
Saddak and Nick and Karanas and
Vess
bastards. Yeah, he he looks like the
dark side of myself.
All right. Anyways,
oh, so yeah, I don't know if you what
you're I mean, I was initially just
going to go up to camp, but if anybody
is strongly against it, if not, I'm
going to start climbing.
You're the leader, man. I'm going to
make a decision. I'm just waiting to
hear the argument that says no.
Yeah. I mean, I I
I uh I don't necessarily mind losing.
It's going to happen, I guess. All
right, sounds good. So,
wait, where are we going? Back up to
camp. He said he's going to camp. And
we're going to camp. Okay. Well, you
didn't want to fight. You didn't want to
fight the skeletons anyway. So, you got
you got your goal. I'm always I'm always
hungry. Did you make that a goal?
Uh, no. It was to prove our our
worthiness. I don't know if we're doing
that. We're doing the opposite. Uh where
did I have a camp?
I thought I had a camp
when we uh last time we used our super
secret camp. Uh you just had us on the
the ring, the stone ring. Yeah. There
was no separate graphic for it. Yeah.
Yeah. That is Do you want to do the
super secret camp or do you want to stay
in the um the cobweb camp? Cuz we can
get to both of them. Super secret camp.
I climb up the of the web. Yeah, that is
a safer one to go to. Is safer one
because I think it gives us a bonus,
doesn't it? It does. It does. Uh to
exhaustion, I think, right? Yeah, it's
out of the wind. Is that right? Yeah.
Yeah, something like that. Here we
go. Um I wrote it
down somewhere. Plus one to recovery
checks for exhausted and afraid. It's
out of the
weather. All right.
Beautiful looking.
All right. So, you guys enter
camp. All right. Um, you guys enter into
camp phase. So, uh, somebody stub their
toe so I can treat it real quick.
And, uh,
No, I won't be fresh anymore. Um, that's
true. Uh, and you guys, uh, go back to
camp, right? You go back to camp. And as
you enter camp, um, you guys can have
you're in camp phase. So, uh, first
things
first, you guys need
to see what our camp event is.
We find the um those that we're looking
for. For some reason, they're just
laying here. That would be awesome. I
get a plus one to camp event rolls in
the wilderness. Does that count? It sure
does. Sweet.
Roll high, Bob. Well, I mean, I don't
know if I'm Do I roll it? No. The first
thing I have to decide is how dangerous
this camp is. It's good. Uh uh. Are you
guys going to have a uh you guys going
to have a fire or no?
We don't really need a fire, do we? Not
if you're not. I I I'm cooking a meal.
Well, the problem is meal. But the thing
is though, when by cooking a meal, this
actually won't earn you a fate point
because it's not actually helping the
party because no one's hungry and
thirsty. So it may be to your benefit.
Yeah, it is. It's keeping me fresh. No,
it's helping the party. No, because if
you keep going to camp, you never have
to eat for the entire game. That was a
joke. I know. Okay. I was just being
sarcastic. I I mean I don't What's the
benefit of having the fire? It's usually
doesn't it give them They can see us
warm. Um it it keeps you warm. It cooks
lets you cook food, provides light. Um,
but you know, anything like cooking,
alchemical solutions, forging, anything
that would require a campfire, which is
I don't think we need it. So, I got cold
gaspacho. Yes. And and all recovery
jerky. And all recovery tests are one ob
higher if there's no fire. So, but you
guys don't have to recover. So, you guys
are good. So, uh, now does anyone want
to set watch?
Yeah, I do. Okay, cool. All right. Um,
so you have a plus one to the camp
prevent role because you guys found a
camp. Um, is it has concealment, so it's
plus two. You have a ranger with you, so
it's a plus three. You're setting a
watch, so it's a plus four. Mhm. And
you're good to go. All right, Bob.
I think it's 2d6 or 3d6. Let me double
check.
Uh oh, and this is a dark
camp. Does that give you benefit?
Oh, it reduces the danger penalty. Okay.
Well, you don't have any danger penalty,
so you're fine. Uh, all
right. Outside natural caves, ancient
ruins. All right. Uh, Bob, roll 3d6
and add four.
Pretty decent roll there, Bob. 12.
Ooh. All right. Plus one. Uh on a plus
four. Oh. Um plus 16. Yes. All right.
So, as you settle into your camp and
have a little bit more time and you
start looking around, you find one of
the trees near the camp has been
engraved with ancient elven runes of
blessings and protections, speaking to
the power of the great immortal lords.
Behold, an ancient shrine carved into a
weirwood tree, untouched by the ravages
of time and chaos.
Magicians do not need to spend a check
in order to memorize spells in the
presence of this shrine. And shamans and
the urges do not need to spend a check
to accomplish their purification rituals
here.
This is just in our camp. Is that
permanent now? It's permanent now. Yeah.
Sweet.
Hey, we're building a pretty sweet base.
If you had rolled If you had rolled If
you had rolled one higher, you would
have gotten a free treasure roll. Oh
[ __ ]
Oh, torque. Oh [ __ ] it's a torque. They
stashed it here. It's their camp.
Um, yeah, if you had rolled two higher,
you would have gotten an artifact. Holy
[ __ ]
Um, all right. Well, yeah. Uh, so yeah,
that you your your camp is not only
particularly well sheltered, it also
houses an ancient shrine of ancient
immortal power.
I had a feeling this was the right
direction when we made camp. All right.
Um, so, uh, Ryan, obviously you, uh, you
know, in role playing terms, you know,
you make the best of your situation, but
technically nobody has to actually eat
or use a ration because nobody's going
to become hungry and thirsty. Uh, GM
Scott, you may make your ctographer
check. All righty. What is my OB, good
sir? That is a great
question. I do not know. Uh, let's see.
The only thing that we're updating is
the path to town essentially. Correct.
It's just one thing. Um, a few days
travel is two and you've personally
surveyed the area. So, it's an OB three
to add the town.
Are you serious? Yeah.
Can remembering help?
It's an instinct. I don't know if anyone
can aid me with a nature. They can.
Nature is the only thing. Yes. Okay.
Remember, Elvin Elvin remembering is
more about like remembering the ancient
past, but it's not just remembering.
N. Do you have any supplies like ink or
paper or parchment or cloth or charcoal?
Uh,
nothing is that's especially labeled as
supplies. Correct. Then then no. Yeah,
you have to have have it on you. Yep.
Uh, I mean I I could tear up one of my
scrolls. Yeah, let's that's probably not
a good idea, but uh yeah. Yeah. Wow. I
have um well the lowest the lowest
possible ctographer object Gibbs Scott
is two which would be a small room like
a few rooms and surveyed personally
which is a one. So you had one plus one.
So the lowest this could ever be is two
and I have no way of increasing that
myself. You do. You now have persona
points. So you can channel your persona
and add your nature to this.
Yeah, I looked at that. But I mean, what
would be my nature? Boasting. Maybe you
would be I finally got this. You would
be acting outside of your nature.
Okay. So, you're channeling your nature
against your nature. So, that means that
if you fail the check, your nature will
be penalized. Okay. So, you you're
putting your nature at risk by using it
for what it was not intended. You're
using it for adventure [ __ ] not for
human [ __ ] Okay, I got you. Not against
my nature. I'm going outside of my
nature. You're going outside of your
nature against your same basic
difference. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I'm
going to have to do that. Okay. Plus,
you get to spend a persona point. So,
right. Okay. So, um trade no trait.
Um persona
spent. There we
go. And so now I have four dice versus
ob. Yeah. So, no, no, no, no. So, here's
what you want to do. So, you're not
spending a persona. That just gives you
a one dice per persona spent. You could
do that if you want to, but I don't
recommend it. Oh, so what I would do is
I would turn that to a zero. Okay. And
then, so your current persona is two.
So, I would reduce that to one and I
would take your total spent up to two
right there on the sheet. No, no, you
can do it right there on the roll sheet.
Right there in the big persona section.
Right there. Yep. Yep. You can do that
right there just so you can track it
more effectively. Got it. And then what
you're going to do, GM Scott, is you're
going to make sure you increase that
total spend so you get credit for
it. There you go. Then you're going to
click the channel nature button because
you're channeling your nature. Oh, there
it is. Okay. Now you are have a nature
of four. So this is going to have four
dice, but it's not within your nature.
It is outside your nature. So change it
from within to outside. And and there
you go. Now you're rolling seven dice.
Seven dice. You also could use a trait.
I was thinking of using my
um I don't know if I want to use my
thoughtful or my wizard sight here. I
think thoughtful's probably more
appropriate because Yeah, I I almost
kind of want to use it against myself
because I do have seven on three now.
Yeah, but you you know how these things
go. So that's true. That's true. It's up
to you. It's up to you. Can you even
earn checks in camp? You cannot earn
kick jacks. Oh, that's true. Yeah. All
right. There you go. All right. So,
there you go. Eight dice versus OB
three. All right. Let's hope for the
best, guys. Fingers crossed. Chain
studies is Hey, there you go. Oh my god.
It's a good thing it takes eight dice to
get three.
So, well, I mean, eight dice on average
should be four. It should. Yeah. So, I
mean, you know, it is. And that three is
a high roll for me. So, um, well, but
you get to mark a pass for cartgrapher,
which which means it goes up to four.
Finally, and oh, your ctographer goes up
to four. All right, that was my last
that I needed. Sick. All right, so
finally, this gives you the thing you ne
ctographer four is big game. I mean,
that's that's a nice skill. And more
importantly, you detail the journey from
the circle of Caravan back to the small
remote village of Fairill. So now you
can traverse that without a check. So
now you guys can go back to town. As
long as you're on your map, you can go
back to town for basically for free.
Nice.
Perfect. All right. And
please, go ahead. I was going to say I I
bump up my I can't do this on this page,
the the roller page. No, you got to go
back to your main. Yeah, you go back to
me your main page. Then you want to go
ahead and um go to the edit and then
take it to four and then reset and then
clear everything. And then as a party,
you have one check, which is Bob's
check. So, anybody can use it.
Who needs it?
Uh couple of you are what? Just hungry
and thirsty. No, you guys are fresh. So,
no one's needs it for anything major.
Does anybody want to do any like if
someone wants to do a scavenge or
something? Yeah, I mean I could that
might not be bad, but Well, do you guys
have room for stuff? Yeah,
I don't think so. Well, depending on
what we find will depend on if we have
room for it or not. No.
Um what a or well we the check was there
it had good value in that you were at
the watch if we needed to use it to
avoid a issue that would have been good
but what can we do I mean my fear is if
one of the things we try to do was to
keep or retain herbers and my uh fresh
condition us doing a check and have
potentially losing that in the in the as
an outcome is that that is very
possible. Yes. Now, do you lose the We
lose this check now that we're at camp.
Yep. It'll go use it or lose it. Well,
I'm just going to say I have two skills
that are about to level up. There. It's
a good way way to use checks. Could hunt
if I pass. I could scout. I need to
fail.
Just suggestions.
I got I can scavenge, but and that's
like that's like that like specialty
skill that we get. So scavenger is like
my specialty skill. So I'd get a bonus
on that. But again, I might lose a
fresh. Yeah, I don't think you or Saddak
should be doing anything.
I'm just gonna sit here and eat my
uh Amos, Tain,
anything. Thoughts? I mean, I I need to
fail a manipulator or pass a scholar,
but we'll save that for another time.
Okay. Yeah, do your thing. All right.
Well, uh, you guys want hunt or scout? I
think scout's probably the better one.
When are you going to go scout? Scouting
might not be bad. Yeah. Go, go for the
look around the area. All right. Now,
remember, cuz camp is not for
adventuring, just to be clear. So, you
know, I know. I know. We see. Yeah. See
if you can find any more benefits for
our camp that we didn't realize.
So, yeah, we know it's there. So,
really, no matter what we need to do
next, it our answers are in the dungeon.
Either we get the torqus. Yes. Or in the
dungeon. The harp. It's in the dungeon.
Is there anything you can do from our
super secret camp scouting ahead to kind
of help us maybe determine where maybe
one of those like I I mean it's so deep
in the dungeon. I don't know how you
can't go too far. But not that I can.
How about a back entrance, a second
entrance in other than the well? I
thought we did that the first time we we
showed up to the top of the uh cave
entrance. We we looked around and we
couldn't I know we looked around that
hill though. But yeah, we were able to
find this area to like uh make a safe
camp, but I thought we
I correct me if I'm wrong, but I thought
we had looked cuz Yeah, cuz you looked
You did look around at the circle of
Carvinol. Yes. For a Could be somewhere.
We're in the woods now. Not the circle.
So, I mean, there could be something
here or we could have just failed really
bad. I don't remember. We're in the
woods and we found this ancient shrine.
Perhaps there's, you know, more to this
shrine or more in the area. If there's
nothing to scout Derek or you don't you
can't see a a feasible thing, then I'll
just go hunting. No, no, no. I you you
tell me what you're looking for. I just
um Well, now that I've seen this shrine,
it makes me think that this area in
general seems to be more important than
just a typical uh safe spot that we
camped at. We we maybe we got lucky.
Maybe the gods told us we should have
came here. Mhm. Now that I'm here, I
feel like there's more significance to
our camp than there really is. And now
I'm wondering if if I look behind the
tree and under the brush and, you know,
get and go maybe a little further out,
maybe around the the rock formations
that I see. Maybe there's something more
significant in this area. Okay. Now, the
way that you see a 10ft pole, pick it up
for me. Now, the way that scout works is
the base ob is depending on what the
size of the thing that you're looking
for. So, so something like a cave mouth
or a house is ob one. What about and a
needle is ob four. Oh god. Then the loca
then you add the location of the target.
If it's known, you add one. If it's
roughly known, you add two. And if
you're guessing, you add three. So,
we're definitely guessing. You are
definitely guessing. Well, no, you
roughly know. You're you're looking
around the shrine. Okay. Right. So, it's
in the middle. Yes. Right. Too. And uh
Yeah. So, what are you looking for? I'm
not really looking for a needle in the
hay stack. I guess I'm looking for more.
I mean, if this is a shrine, maybe this
is a place where people had brought
Okay. Uh stuff to look for to not
sacrifice, but you know, tribute. Scout
OB Five.
Scout OB Five. Scout OB Five.
All right. Uh am I doing this by myself?
group. You can help him. But remember,
if you help and he fails, you are bound
by the same conditions of his failure as
he is. Didn't you want to fail? Uh, I do
want to fail. [ __ ] you're right. All
right, but I got four. Don't help me,
guys. I thought I I thought he was being
very clever by picking a really high OB
for his skill that he wanted to fail.
Turns out Bob was completely unaware of
what he was doing and yet was somehow
doing the right thing.
But then as you started describing it,
it sounded more and more enticing that I
wanted to find something cool.
Um, so anyway, I have four dice versus
five op. You have by accident. Four dice
versus five op, which means you
basically cannot uh uh you cannot uh you
cannot succeed. Yeah, the only thing I
can think of is adding my loner trait.
Um, but I don't really feel like doing
not if you want to fail. I know that's
kind of what I'm going for here. So,
we're just going to go for it. You see
Carnelas wander off uh maybe guided,
misguided as he looks
around. I say this would be the time
where you actually roll four successes.
Yes, absolutely. Stop wasting them. I
have failed. My scout goes up to five.
Your scout goes up to five. And you are
going to succeed, Bob, with so you fail,
but that that you did I'm going to give
you success with a condition. So Bob,
you you you are just you're like there
could be something free here and you
can't let it go. So that you spend the
entire you just keep looking and looking
and looking and looking Bob you just and
you become hungry and thirsty. Okay,
checks out.
However, because you were out scouting,
there was only some food at camp.
As you are digging around from the
through the this ancient immortal
shrine, you stumble across
a strange glittering object half buried
in the soil beneath the roots of an
ancient tree.
Looking at it closer, it appears to have
be some sort of crown. A crown? H? Yes.
Well, you got to put it on right now.
Elvin crown. Uh, it's difficult to see
from here, but it definitely sure go
over to it. Yes, as you get closer to
it. Yes, Bob. It does have the elven
look and nature to it. It is in It is in
surprisingly good shape for being stuck
in the ground. It is roughly the size of
a humanoid or elven head. It has five
points around its top and each point is
uh capped with a small diamond gemstone.
And there is there is ancient silver
filigree uh carved into it forming
strange patterns and ancient runes upon
the crown surface. Now logically I would
put this in my bag. However, I have no
room. So obnoxiously I have to put this
on my head. Yes. Yes. Yes you do. It
comes back in town.
I I hope I hope that crown is not
sealing an ancient evil.
Not anymore.
Bob walks off. He's like never comes
back to the party. Like where'd he go?
He's outside somewhere getting Yeah, he
gets or something. Yeah, he gets uh
whatchamacallit uh it's like Dr. Dr. uh
Dr. Fate. Is that what it is? Oh, yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. DC Comics. Um yeah. All
right. So Bob, you uh return with this
ancient glittering crown and as you kind
of enter into camp, Amos ass, you are
stunned at what you see at top his head.
You wouldn't believe the stuff I found
out here for that is a crown. That is a
crown of the lords of law. an ancient
relic dedicated to the powerful immortal
lords of law and order who keep deankind
and the spirit world at bay. Oh, well,
would you look at that booby? This is a
relic. You're fighting the demon. This
is a relic. This is a relic for This is
a Theurge spell aid. Yes, this is a
relic for the level two invocation
uh which is called uh something
something the lords of law wrath of the
lords of law. It's on page
223. The lords of law do not countenance
spirits from beyond the shroud of worlds
who would meddle in the world of flesh.
Demons and spirits fall back before your
wrath. This invocation causes any spirit
or demon who can see the the urge to
flee from their presence. They must have
a way place to flee from if backed into
a corner they attack violently. This
only affects spirits, demons, and
celestial creatures.
Hey, let's go visit that spirit again in
that dragon mouth.
So, does it look good on me or I mean,
it looks pretty good. I mean, you're not
You pimping it, dude. Where did you get
that?
Just found it. It's just lying on the
side of the road.
You found it beneath an ancient elven
tree as part of an ancient elven shrine.
Old adventurer must have thrown it off
on the side of the road. They didn't
want it anymore and they just died.
Yeah. Like, follow my knees.
The crown of the lords of law.
I know this. I don't understand. Now,
while it is a powerful relic, it is also
very valuable.
It is worth eight dice of treasure. Wow.
Eight dice or our heads getting ripped
off by a demon. I gotta go with the
crown on that one. So, there you go.
Tough choice to be made either way, I'm
afraid.
Well, either way, we can't go back to
town because we'll get hungry again
because we haven't really explored
anything because these stupid necklaces.
So, now the the urge gets a benefit from
wearing it. Is that what you're saying?
I It would aid me in casting that spell
that makes demons and spirits flee my
presence. Gotcha. Do you know that
spell? Yeah, I know every spell. I could
cast it without it. Oh, so okay. I am
significantly less likely to explode if
I'm wearing it. Yeah, the the band helps
hold your head together. It also reduces
the casting time. Uh oh, it goes from
one turn. It makes it zero turns and
only two burden. So yeah, that is
So I walk up. I know elf, it looks
pretty on you, but I think it's going to
help out our um our the urge buddy over
there better.
I mean, it fits really good. I know, but
you're a ranger. If you can't you got to
duck more to crawl under the brush. It's
going to get caught. Yeah, it doesn't
seem to be stealthy. No, not at all.
I'm not the most fanciful of anyway.
There we go. The crown of the lords of
law. Nice. Amos, good job. Keep it safe.
We have Rome. It shall be kept safe.
Keep it secret. Can't be kept safe. It
is a sacred road. It shall be it will be
kept safe. Okay. I thought you said it
can't be kept safe. I was like, "Oh,
great. This thing is doom." Um Well,
yeah. Well,
uh for
uh good or bad, I've
The gods shine upon us in our mission.
This with this fine. They do. All right.
There you go. Let it let it let it glow
bright the next time you cast a spell.
It feels like we do have some favor. our
group. It's not all oneided.
Yeah. Now I kind of want to wait. So
there seems to be a force guiding us. I
place it onto Amos's head and bow down
on my uh knee. Yeah, it should. The elf
is bowing to a human.
It should be unlocked. There you go.
Yeah, I move. Should that go against his
nature right there? Bowing to a human.
Such a humble peasant. Such a humble
peasant. Yeah, you're bowing to a
peasant.
This This peasant has saved my life more
times than I can count. He's all blinged
out with He's got He's way better than
any dwarf. He has the He has the amulet
of the eye of the burning lord, the ruby
of the lord of fire, the crown of the
lords of law and Amos shows up in
recession and he's a he's a I've got a
I've got a hand mirror. We just gave the
role player of the year a crown. Three
artifacts. Man, you just what? You see
this? He reminds me of those the um the
the guild members like the fat guys
walking through town with the fancy garb
and like they all the fancy rings and
everything. What are you talking about?
He is he's one of he's one of he's one
of the people. He's a commoner just like
you. Peasant peasant. He just changed
his dirty jobs thing this this session
just like JLo. He's like that belief
Jenny from the block. Yeah, that belief
did that instinct wasn't serving me
well. Things have changed for the
theater. She's on the up and up. Um,
man, if that's what the people look
like, I want to be the people. Well, uh,
you guys are done with camp and you're
done with checks, so I'm going to leave
camp phase and now you guys are going
back into the adventuring phase. Yes.
So, you guys are back, uh, presumably at
the circle, but, you know, everything's
on your map, so you guys can kind of
tell me where you want to head. Yeah, we
need to think we should Yeah, I think we
should travel deeper in. Yeah. Do we
want to find something new? Look for the
statue rooms. Do we want to go off the
skeleton room? Do we want to try and
track those other jokers down that have
the torqus?
That's not a bad idea. That again, that
is the thing that is on the clock.
Derrick, did you ever Derek, did you
ever answer Matt's question as to
whether or not we could track them
through the dungeon? Oh, yeah, of course
you can. Well, okay. Well, let's go
sniff out vest and what was it? Nickerb.
Yeah, vest and all right. Well, not not
not only
that, but
I think there's a rule about your
nemesis. Oh, excellent.
Brian, is that your enemy as well as
actual enemy or uh enemy twin brother?
Yep. Okay, good. That's what mine is,
too.
Um, is this the character creation book?
Yes. I mean, we know they were in that
room. And they were in that room. I
don't want to hurt too long ago. I don't
want to hurt them. I just want to get
the torqus. Yep. And there's only one
though with those those skeletons,
right? There's four. They each had one.
They each had one. They each had cuz I
remember I thought we had only saw one
on them. I think I thought so too, but
yeah, we only had seen the one, but now
we
know. Well, I mean, and if this is a
guard tower or guard room, I mean,
the there should be better stuff deeper
what they're guarding. So, there's got
to be other stuff deeper in they're
guarding demon. Yeah, they're Yeah,
they're they were there as wards.
Uh, I just found artifact crown. Is that
good enough for you? Yes. Uh, no. I want
the harp. Okay. Well, here it is. We do
need this harp. So, here's the problem.
Uh, when facing an enemy in a drive off,
convince or convince crowd, the enemy
gets plus three successes to their
disposition role. Oh my gosh. Is there a
nemesis? Yes. When facing an enemy, so
the enemy gets that that stack.
I guess I don't know. Because there's
two two of them in there. Well, it's
whoever's making the disposition role.
So, you know, you would obviously want
one of you guys to make the disposition
role is all I'm saying. You know, you
guys, but it'll be kind of but it'll be
kind of cancelled because they'd get it,
too. Oh, that's true. Yeah, that's true.
Um, any case, um, okay, so where you
guys heading? Uh, what are you thinking,
Jim Scott? Where's, uh, where where on
that map do you think? Do you want to
start back at the skeleton room and work
our way or you want to Yeah, I have no
idea where they would be, but and
neither do I until we start making
rolls. Yeah. So, I mean, we at least
have to go back to the skeleton room and
try and pick up a trail. But they the
thing is the guard room. They would have
done this weeks ago like in terms of
real time like right behind us, you
know. So then we got like Yeah. Where
did we go? We then got lost in the caves
or lost in the dungeon. No, technically
we're actually in front of them. Well,
now we are. But they were here right
after we fell. I think we're thinking
too hard about this. Skeleton's gone.
Where do we need to go? All right. Start
looking around for some uh feetrints, I
guess. Uh can I try a dunge engineer?
Some of those are
are scouting. Yeah, it's going to
probably be scout. Yeah. Uh trailing
targets and finding hidden things is
scout.
What's your scout there, Mr. Um elf?
Five.
Five. Yeah, go for it.
I can help. Well, is there any new is
this is those are those halls a new area
or no? Technically, cuz we we ran
through them without looking. You've
been there before, but there was no
mapping occurring because you were
running for your life. That was where
you wondering, does my instinct trigger
when you get in that room? Which room?
Uh, if we go to like the hall, the
statues. The whole statues. Oh, the hall
statues. Yes. But like the generic
endless roaming hallways. What's your
instinct? Uh, my instinct is to always
look ahead when exploring a new area.
Yeah, that would be new area. Okay. And
then would my instinct trigger with
always search for traps in doorways?
Yeah. I mean, because you said you would
never make me roll unless there was
something there to spot kind of thing.
Correct. But does it still count? Yeah.
Well, so do you guys want us to scout
footprints? What do you mean by does it
still count? I mean, if it doesn't help
you, then no, it doesn't help you. I
Yeah, that's what I'm wondering. So, if
you don't stick a trap there the rest of
the game, correct? That instinct sort of
boned me. Is that correct? mechanically
is that like kind of the best best way
to do it is to go into the those rooms,
not the web filled rooms, but the other
hallways and have you you we would you
trigger your uh Well, I'm just trying
and then that would be, you know, a
chance of a free almost hopefully a free
check to look for footprints, traffic,
foot traffic in that direction. Well,
no, his his instinct is to look for
danger. Danger. Oh, okay. So, wouldn't
the same thing there's nothing more
dangerous than his nemesis. True.
I mean, that actually is probably true,
but So, Derek, you said from this
skeleton guard room, there's the well
shaft up. Yep. There's the You can think
of if this was a room in a dungeon,
there are there's a shaft in the center
of the ceiling. There's an entrance to
the left which leads to the web filled
hallways. And then there's an entrance
to the right which leads to the uh the
empty endless hallways. All right. And
there's no other there's no other ver
you know from a point crawl perspective
I mean there might be some adjoining
weird rooms or if somebody wanted to
camp we might you know quantumly make
something appear but in terms of it
location wise no this is just an ancient
tomb complex. Okay. All right. So yeah I
guess we just need to explore the places
we haven't been to see if they're there.
Do you want to start heading towards
that statueette room then? Sure. Okay
statue room. Yeah the statue room. That
what what is that off of again? I don't
have that map in front of me. The
twisting empty hallways. All right,
that's where we're going. Okay, cool.
All right. Well, you guys move into the
uh the twisting
hallways and uh attempting to make your
way back towards the
uh uh the stand trying to get to the
statueette room at least to start uh
maybe making some ideas here. Yeah, we
were in We were here before. Yes. You
ran through here when you were in your
flight from the from the the thing and
then you guys took a bad turn and then
this ended up leading you to the web
filled hallways. Correct. Correct. Yeah.
But now you're here deliberately. So
with torch held high, you make your way
from the ancient tomb into the long
arched hallways that sort of occupy this
central section of the hallway.
Geographically or um the hallways are
similar to the ones made filled with
webs but noticeably less webbby. um
suggesting perhaps the lack or absence
of something nasty. Meanwhile, um you
make your way down the hallways trying
to remember your steps from so long ago
when you were running from your life
from the skeletons which were chasing
you through the hallways. The torch
flickers left and right and you are
attempting to retrace your steps. This
is an engineer check. Oh yes, sir.
Herbert,
can I get anybody got any help? I'm
looking.
Um, no, I can't. He's like, uh, no.
I have been, but no. Great question.
So, dungeoner, survivalist, sapper,
sapper, and survivalist.
Yes. Um,
[Music]
I do have survivalist.
I I This is going to be the dice. This
is going to be
OB two. What's your What's your
engineering? Um Um I got a four. No, I
got a Yeah, I got a four, but my problem
is I have minus one because I have the
backpack.
Um you do get another plus you get the
fresh condition, right? So, yeah, that
autos on. So, that's why I have the
four. That's why you have the four.
Yeah. Um Okay. Well, um seeing as we've
been here before,
um you know, we start to uh It's weird
that this is like survivalist as a check
versus like scout because I feel like
I'd be Well, no. You remember I'm always
allowed to add one
one skill. So, you always you should
describe what you want to do in the
fiction and leave that up to me.
I would like to um you know as he's
trying to look around me for the best
path. Uh I you know I I follow the walls
you know trying to trying to remember uh
where we've been where we came from. I I
know where we came from and I was
running this way. I know I got lost to
the left here and then I I know but then
I don't remember where I went from here.
So maybe we should go over this way. I'm
thinking more of a scout but that's sort
of what I'm doing. I'm trying to trying
You guys have been here before and
you've found this location before. So
you're looking for visual clues. So yes,
you can you can help. I'm trying to
eliminate the number of questions that
he asks. I go a little bit on this side.
He's looking to live on that side. Yeah.
So you can help with scout. I mean, and
if you think about it, we're probably
the only ones that have been here other
than the other party for a long time. So
all the dust there should be only oneish
set of footprints. They might not. Who
knows? They came and went. Yep. So it
might be easier.
So yes, you can help with scout.
Awesome. So that's one for
you. Perfect.
Anybody else got something or is that
it? So, it's OP two. I got four
dice. Here we
go. Come on, baby.
Uh, two. Sweet. Nice. All right. So, go
ahead and make a mark a pass on your
dunge engineer check as well. Sure.
So, um, a turn passes and you guys spend
a, uh, a chunk of time manu making your
way through the, uh, through the
darkness of the dungeon, lit by the
flickering lights, guided by the eyes of
Karanolas and the sort of intuitive
nature of Berber, who uses his sense of
the dungeon in order to sort of u gauge
where you're going. Meanwhile, Tane
takes notes to later translate into a
map. And
the most important part. Yes. And after
uh you know uh some period of time, 15
uh 20 minutes pass um you make your way
around several left turns and right
turns. And
finally, as you round a corner, you see
stretching out before you a somewhat
familiar
site. A
large doorway
leads to a ancient hall lined with
columns and broken statues, the far end
of which is an ancient door.
Uh Bob, as you enter this area, your
instinct triggers. Excellent.
And this this was off of the empty
hallways, right? Yeah. Is there an op
for this? There is, Bob. But I'm going
to say it's three. Okay.
Can I help him with delving? Nope.
Nature isn't Isn't Oh, nature when it's
You can You can help with nature if it
applies. Yeah. Uh ber totally sweet
because in this particular instance that
does actually help. Awesome. Well, we
were going side by side here and we'll
see what happens. Terrible.
A lot of freeze. Awful. Do you have a
Well, you probably couldn't spend a
persona on an ah of course, right? Uh
unless he has a wise that's relevant.
No.
All right, Bob. You are going to
succeed. However, Bob, you are made
angry.
I mean, I was after that roll. Yeah,
because you're like, "What the [ __ ] is
with these dice?" Um, it's totally It's
totally a meta It's totally a meta
anger. Um, okay. So, as you enter into
this
ancient sort of uh this ancient
supported hall with the paired aloves,
the pieces of stone rubble filling out
uh apparently having broken off of the
ancient statues here. Now, I should note
that the statues are larger than human
sides, but while they do depict humanoid
figures, their hands are sort of
upraised as if like virtually supporting
the roof. These humanoids be in this elf
dungeon, but time has sort of eroded
away. But looking at them, you can see
that the they have vague suggestions
that these humans are being transformed
into something and the imagery of scales
and claws is apparent on their forms.
Lizard people. However, Bob, as you
look, you note that
maybe you maybe you briefly sense a
brief slight change of air pressure. And
your elven senses are so finely tuned
that you spot the thin outline visible
through through the dust and debris of
of centuries of a secret door behind one
of the statues.
And as you look, you can see that uh it
appears
like that you should be able to get
behind the statue and potentially access
the secret door. Now, how to open it?
You're not sure, but you do spot it.
Hammer.
Leave it to a dwarf to think like that.
Nah, it's probably weak anyways. You
know, these elven temples never built
structurally sound. Well, the concerning
nature of these statues leads me to
Well, so this So, there's the big door
still in front of us, right? Yes. Yes.
Okay. And we haven't we haven't examined
that. I don't know if Amos, you want to
take a look at that?
Uh, it appears to be a door. Oh, I giant
door. I mean, again, I'm going off uh 16
bit imagery here of uh of non-realistic
things, but is this this door's at the
end of this hall? Yes. Seems
significant, Amos.
Well, isn't that secret door
significant, too? I mean, that is very
secrets are for secrets are there for a
reason. Yeah, I was uh uh Tain says he
was studying this uh ancient text uh
about a a temple one time where the the
entrance was right in front of them, but
the secret entrance was off to the side
where you had to gather three gems and
and collect them and and that opened a
secret passage in. So perhaps there is a
alternate way into this as well.
Okay, I guess I will look behind this uh
statue and to see if this door has any
the secret door that I can I can tell
that it's not exactly aligned. Right.
Right. Uh but maybe there's I'm I'm
searching for maybe a handle or
something. Ber, I hope you're assisting
me here to make sure I don't get zapped
by something. Yeah, trap trap. No, no,
no rule necessary. You described it
pretty well. Um, as you look uh behind
the statue, actually on the plinth of
the statue itself, you can see that
there is a small button or toggle or
switch. Push the button
before I push this button. Yeah. Is
everyone okay with me pushing this
button? You're the party leader, man.
Push it.
All right, Bob. As you push the button,
the switch is trapped with a poison
needle. I knew it.
Um, so since it wasn't a door we went
through, the trap didn't my instinct
didn't kick off. That is correct. Uh,
that is correct. Uber here for this
reason. That is correct. Uh, Bob, this
counts as a turn. Bob, I'm forcing you
to make a scout check in order to sort
of see this uh thing at the last minute
and jerk your hand back and avoid being
poisoned to death. Okay. What's the ob?
To death. Ouch. Well, I mean, you know,
technically, uh, the ob is two, Bob.
I feel like I should,
uh, use my calm against me as I freak
out. Yes, you could do. You You're being
very deliberate and methodical. Yes.
Yes. Okay. Okay. So, against you. So,
four verse two. Playing the ads here.
Yep. Yep. We hear Bob scream like a girl
as soon as he sees the And no one react.
And no one reacts. Hey, there you go.
All right, Bob. All right. that success.
Mark that success. All right. At the
last second, Bob, you see the needle
deploying and you jerk your hand back.
You also earn a check from your I got
that. Woohoo. And uh and also don't
forget to mark your angry condition if
you didn't. I have it marked. I don't
know why. Okay. Maybe it just hasn't uh
updated. Okay, there we go. Yeah, it
just wasn't updating on the OBS. Cool.
Um, okay. So, yeah, uh, you jerk your
hand back, the the pre the switch
depresses the wall segment, a segment
probably about the same size as a human
roughly. So, it's kind of a narrow door,
right? Sinks into the wall. You can see
dirt and kind of debris kind of falling
down from where the blocks break apart
and there's sort of, you know, all that
gunk and stuff that between the uh walls
and the the bricks and the mortar kind
of sinks into the wall and then it it
like swings
inward
revealing a chamber revealing a chamber
beyond
the harp. Uh
so there you go.
Someone else can walk in. I have to walk
in first. [ __ ] I was like, someone I
just had a dart thrown at me, but I'm I
have to go in first. It's my instinct.
Okay. Creepy looking. Fancy. All right.
Inside is a room. Your torch light
flickering barely to keep it a light.
Um, actually, as Bob does that, your
torch goes out. I forgot. That's right.
I was like, it did cost me a turn to
dodge that. So, um, I'm assuming we're
going to light another one. Done.
Okay, hold on one second. How many
torches do we have, by the way?
Um, I have five on me. I have five plus
my lit. Okay. All right. We're good for
a minute. It gets dark for a few moments
while uh Saddak gets another torch
ready, but you have a tinder box, so
it's not an issue. Um, and then when the
light refills the room, you see through
the right now. Right now, you're outside
of it. You know, you're at the the uh
outside of the secret door. Inside, you
see a small squat stone chamber with
blocks of stone of all types and sizes
sitting under a patina of undisturbed
dust. But me, many of them, most of them
show evidence of a sculptor's chisel.
rough heads, arms, faces, and other
forms are half freed from blocks of
living stone. And besides these
unfinished sculptures, there is a stone
workbench against the far wall. Sitting
upon it are many stonework implements
like hammers and chisels laying visible
upon the bench.
Uh guys, before we do
anything, I just have to remind us that
uh something told us above when the sky
or when the stone is like the sky,
beware the living stone. There's a lot
of stone around here that might be
living. So, let's just pay attention. I
first do have to look and explore this
area. Look up at the ceiling. Yeah.
Before you do that, let me search. So,
let me search the door to see if there's
another trap. Unfortunately, your
instinct is to always check the doors
for traps. So, Berber, you don't have to
remind me. You'll know if I do forget,
you can tell me. I was just being
sarcastic. No, he pushed the button.
But, I'm but I'm not going to make you
do a scout check if there isn't one. So,
that's that's the way. So, Berber very
carefully, cautiously spans the door. No
scout check is made. So, you're
confident there. And then, Bob, you you
enter in immediately uh with your
instinct and begin looking around
rapidly. So, Bob, make another scout
check. This is for free. Um, yeah. Make
ob three.
Okay. Dang. Close. No cigar. Do you have
any things you can use?
Uh, spend one persona point to add one.
That's before you roll. You
may wish. So, no, I don't think so.
Could I use delving to help him or No.
No. No. I think the roll's already done.
Yeah. Also, this is it was an instant.
This is also this is also scouting. So,
okay. Gotcha. We're good. All right.
Well, so I have a choice. I could give
Bob success or I could twist. Mhm. And
I'm going to twist. Okay. I was like, I
don't need any more conditions. Now,
normally in this situation, in a twist,
I can decide what I want to have happen,
and you guys don't get any input.
However, Tain the untrusting was very
adamant in his uh in his
remembering of the warnings
above. And so, as you enter into this
chamber, and uh you'll you'll have to
pardon me because I I don't I didn't
actually think that you guys were going
to
uh uh survive this long, make it here.
Uh you guys you guys have kind you guys
have kind of you guys have kind of uh
got in ahead of the prep a little bit.
Ah
hey we're the ones that fell on the
well. Anybody you know we're going to go
anywhere where you don't want us to
wherever you expect us not to go. As you
enter As you enter into the room GM
Scott you notice a sudden glimmering of
blue energy gathering around one of the
half finished statues. There's that
door. Walk away. And then no Carlos
entered the room. That's his instinct.
The door, walk away. Yeah, exactly. The
door walking away. Stupid [ __ ] elves
in. And as you enter into the chamber,
you see that one of the mostly finished
statues, but still very blocky and and
showing signs of needing to be finished.
uh comes to life as the blue energy
swirls around it and sort of flows into
its eyes which begin glowing with a blue
azure radiance as the massive hulking
statue stands up from its carving post
and begins menacingly stalking in on
Coronal. Now normally in a twist I could
say and you're in a conflict and we're
doing this thing but because you had
that awareness tain you guys have the
initiative here so you guys can decide
what you want to do. Do you want to
flee? Do you want to fight? Do you want
to I don't know what you want to do. Um
it's up to you guys. Can we do a
negotiation tea party with them?
What else do is there other doors or
exits in this room? No, this room does
seem to be this is it. This is the only
entrance. Okay. Well, then I I think we
should and and right now the creature is
between Coranolas and the door. Ah, some
worst worst scenario. Quick look at the
ceiling in here. That's what I was doing
when I noticed this thing come up. Is
there anything unusual about it? Is it
just the stone arches pictured or? Yeah,
just the stone arches is pictured.
Nothing super special or or notable. You
see that there may have once been some
cracked ancient uh globes that may have
once been like some sort of like magical
crystal light domes, but they are now
darkened with the passing of centuries.
Um, but yes, this thing has uh has come
to life. However,
and you said it was a blue mist. Yeah.
Well, not a blue mist, just a like an
azure glow that sort of surrounded it
almost like a magical energy. Yeah. Is
that anywhere else in this place? Is
that anywhere else in the same glow?
Yeah. Uh yeah, I'm looking for the off
button. Just like random off switch.
Just to be clear here, uh if you if
you're looking then the fiction dictates
that this thing's going to smash
Coronal. You know what I mean? Like you
guys don't have like it's not like
waiting for you guys. It's just that you
guys get to decide how you're going to
react. Now you can act however you want
and I will react appropriately. Uh, that
being said, GM Scott, yes, you very
briefly see as the creatures as the
Azure glow blows glows, you see a brief
sort of shimmering blue energy um on the
side of the workbench. Not the top, but
like the side like where the apron is.
Okay. Of the of the table. Uh, but now
the the the creature has gone come to
its full height and it is stalking down
on Coronal. What are you guys doing?
It's an elven guardian drive. Talk it
down. Talk it down.
Yeah, it's your thing. Come on. So, it's
your people. So, you guys are thinking
uh convince.
I don't know. Convince a stone golem.
Elves made it. It's not that sturdy.
It is focused on Coronalus, right? Yes.
I mean, it
is out of the way. Coralus is in the
room. Yeah. I mean, I assume you guys
were I mean, Her Ber was obviously close
by because he was looking at the door.
Uh GM Scott, you noticed all this, so
I'm assuming you're a little bit closer
by. And I would assume Saddakok and Amos
are kind of maybe, you know, still back
by the statue um outside of the secret
door. Probably even back still in the
statuary hall. Um but yeah, this thing
is is hulking and menacing and and
definitely moving in on Coronal. So
we'll let you guys decide. Yeah, I was
like maybe you could elf sing it away.
Um Coronal convinced thing.
I need to know what you're doing, Bob. I
mean, that's great craftsmanship. The
first thing I would do physically would
be to d get to try to get out of this
thing's way. So if there's room to dodge
duck dive or dive dive and so you want
to dive dip dive dip dodge dive or
whatever it is. I don't think I'm going
to take this thing on. So my idea is to
get away from it. All right. So Coronal,
you are going to Well, we going to say
you're going to try to leap through the
creature's legs and roll out the other
side. There's enough room. That's where
I'd like to go. Yeah. All right. Well,
in that case, make a health check. Okay.
This is going to be a versus health
check. It's going to be opposed by the
golem's nature. Okay.
As you attempt to well dip dive
Yeah. What's the golem's nature? To
crush the person in the room that's not
the person that made it. Its nature
traits are guarding, smashing.
There you go. And and avenging. So, you
can appreciate that. Um but yes, it is
uh it is literally guarding and
smashing. Those are its two first
natures. Nice. Okay. Also, it's it's
gigantic fists count as uh maces.
Anyways, um so Bob, so bring up your you
got your nature or sorry you got your
health check up. Yep. So it's a versus
test. Yep. And it's going to be versus
five dice. Oh boy. Four versus five.
Yep. All right. Heart of the cards. Yep.
Can I Can I help him with the knowledge
check? You could have, but he but he
rolled. Oh, wait. Is it any of my sixes?
Oh, sweet. You got one six, Bob. So, go
for it. You could spend a fate. You have
a 5050 chance of rolling a six or 50/50
chance of rolling a four, five, or six.
And if you do, you will succeed.
Otherwise, it's a failure. Okay. So, I
is that called luck? That is called
luck. You click on luck. It'll It'll
give you an option to spend your fate
point. Yep. And And then also an option
of how many sixes did you roll. In your
case, you rolled one. Yeah. Cool.
Go.
All right. So, this thing uh Bob tries
to leap forward. The creature brings
down its massive fist. Bob, you have to
roll off to the side. I'm not giving you
success. You do get to mark a failure
for that. For your health. Oh, that's
right. And I'm going to twist you, Bob,
into a kill conflict. [ __ ] Twist you
into You're going to talk, Bob. Good
luck.
Close the door. Walk away. like Popeye's
kid like just deucing out. Now again,
normally I I I I would give you guys the
better chance of the doubt, but you
know, in this case, it's a twist and it
is trying to smash you and it is trying
to kill you. It is it's attempts its
natures are guarding, smashing, and
avenging. So, yeah, it's it's going to
try to it's going to try to smash you to
pieces. So, is it big enough to fit
through the door? Um, you're not sure.
Said it was a narrow door. Yeah, it's
pretty narrow. I might have a hard time.
So, I got a question. Yeah. Why is it a
twist if Bob was able to make it a
success with the with the fate point?
Oh, Bob got a success.
Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh, I saw one and I thought
he rolled a one. No, I rol
a four. Okay. Don't mark a failure. Mark
a pass. Oh, and you get out. Yeah. Okay.
Never mind. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. That
player. Yeah. That That's totally my
That's totally my uh That's totally my
fault. I was like, "This just sucks."
No, I thought it was like something
special like, "Yeah, even but I'm just
going to be a dick." No, no, no, no, no.
I thought Bob rolled a one on his roll.
So, I I didn't see that's why you need
your 3D dice on. Um Yeah, that's Yeah.
All right. You know what? I take it
back. It does. You know what, Tay? You
found yourself a little too close. Uh,
you got
um, so you Bob make a running leap and
jump through the uh, I don't even know
where I put that [ __ ]
Was it dodge, dip, duck, dive? Yeah, you
just say dodge twice. I know say dodge
twice, but there's some words in the
middle. There it is. Um, you take a
running leap and jump through uh behind
you. And as you leap through, Berber
pushes the button and the doors secret
door closes behind. We'll never know if
Berber was doing that after I or he was
doing it anyway. Well, you know, he
wasn't listening to me at the beginning.
I'm like, I can know how to fix. Stop
this. You're like, nah, [ __ ] it. I'm
out. Like, screw it. Try singing at it.
I got something singing for you.
Um, need a change of pants after that
one.
Yes.
All right. Well, you guys saw that thing
in there. It was huge.
So, uh, it it whatever it is, it is not
breaking down the secret door or
something like that. So, it does seem to
be content to stay behind. There's got
to be something in there worth getting.
Yeah. So, my question is, you saw that
blue light from the side of the
workbench. I assume that's the rune that
controls it. Is anyone sneaky enough to
go in there and get it without the golem
seeing them? I don't know if the golem
Well, the good news is through normal
means. The good news is the way you
scout or the way you sneak is you make a
scout check and it's versus the
creature's nature, which is what he just
did. And now normally a creature if it's
forced, it will only do things that are
within its nature. If it's forced to do
things outside of its nature, it rolls
half its dice. However, since one of its
natures is guarding, uh, it would
definitely roll all five dice. So in
this case it would be Bob sneaking or
Bob's uh scout versus its nature. Yeah.
Yeah. Which is actually better because I
was just doing health. This sounds like
something you would really need a
burglar for. Yeah. I only we had one of
those. And you know we could um What's
your nature? I got a little information.
It's only four. Oh, it's only four.
Okay. It's not too bad. It does have a a
nature of five though. So it is a tough.
Let's be very clear. That's that that's
the difference between Bob's elven
nature of hiding versus Saddak's uh
halfling nature of sneaking. So, but but
but there's a couple things here that
might make it interesting. Okay. Right.
I can channel my nature, right?
Fresh, right? Yep. Um and I can help you
with the wise, right? Uh if he's using
his nature. Yes. You're going to be
shouting into the room at him, telling
him what to do, right? It does have it
does it does have to make sense from a
fictional standpoint, but yes. And I can
and because this is incredibly
um
challenging, I could channel uh I could
uh use my look channel my inner hidden
depths to get another dice. So I could
get a lot of dice here. Can't you use
Persona also? I think I think I think I
think Carninalist you need to drink some
water otherwise you are going to be
that's really grinding.
That is you know what just remember that
at the end because I was hoping to get
Bob with a condition Ryan and you and
you and you stole that from me. Bob
doesn't even have Oh, he's one unit of
water. Okay. Yeah. I'm
Yeah. So uh I am no longer You're no
longer hungry and
thirsty. Do do you is that something you
guys want? I'll
I'll be brave. I want to go back in
there. I mean, yeah. I mean, buddy, this
is this is this is put up for shut off
time. You're the one with four persona
and five fade. I mean, let's go. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, we could get the the the
control device and maybe turn it off and
then Well, it's on the side of the
bench, but yeah, he's got to get past
the thing. Get to And and can I tell you
just uh uh I had a choice if I wanted to
take something about sneaking in the
shadows and I chose not to
when you leveled out. Yeah.
All right. The sneaking candid for Well,
you didn't want to be like your brother.
I mean, cuz he's a sneaky one. All
right. Let's I'm gonna I'm gonna Let's
go for it. Okay. Perfect. You can do it,
buddy. All right. So uh you are going
you guys are going to reopen the secret
door and then you are going to very uh
discret with with a great degree of
discretion right yeah I mean I'll I'll
even to the point where I'll give my
torch to somebody with a free hand so
that I'm only in the I will hold the
torch for you s right obviously you need
to see somewhat of light so there's
going to be a little bit of of light
leaking if I if I go in with the torch
and I'm like this you know yeah that's
probably kind of a of a no-brainer
I'll hold it at the edge of the door. I
I got you. I got you. Okay. So, I know
the risk you're taking for us.
Sodak.
Yeah.
So,
I really needed the the incarnates adult
incontinence thing. For real. Yeah. What
it is is he's so small this thing
doesn't even realize he's there.
Absolutely. I mean, you know, it's just
like a, you know, it's just like the
halflings, you know, from uh Lord of the
Rings, you know, they can just kind of
like disappear. All right, Ryan, just
remember, don't make me feel bad about
talking you into this.
All right, so Ryan, make sure you listen
to me. All right, so Ryan or you get
hurt. You're going to go down and make a
scout check.
Uh-huh. Uh, so I'm in sneak, correct?
Yes. So this is actually my nature. So
well, but because you have scout, you
have to roll scout. Oh,
now you can channel your persona versus
I'm going to do that's not how you're
going to do, but yeah. So, if you're
sneaking, you do have to you do have to
roll that. Okay. So, you're going to
start with a scout check. Now, this is
going to be a versus not independent uh
because this creature is uh has the
nature of guarding and you're going to
roll against its five dice of nature.
Yeah, this is going to be a turn on the
grind. Now, you did mention before that
you were going to tap into your uh
hidden depths. hidden depths for me.
Yep. Now, you want to channel your
nature. Yep. This is within your nature
because sneaking is something that you
do as a halfling. So, um that that's
good. Now, channeling your nature, even
if you pass, still reduces your nature
by one. But if you fail, it reduces it
by how much you failed by. Oh, no. I'm
sorry. This is within your nature, so
you're totally fine. I forgot.
Uh, and now you can spend additional
persona
points, right? Um, by by Well, but real
quick, so you're channeling your nature.
So, reduce your current persona by one
and then increase your total spent by
one. Oh, so persona spent one. Yeah. So,
so current persona should go down by
one. Total spent should go up by one.
Uh, current Okay, I see. I can do it
here, too. You can do it right here.
Yeah. No, no, no. Uh, yeah, but you can
spend additional persona for additional
dice, right? Which I'm going to do.
Okay,
now before do before you roll. Yeah,
Derek, I'm taking one of my scrolls out
and getting it ready to set my staff up
against the wall. Got it. Perfect. The
ethereal appendage is ready. Yep. Noted.
Yeah. What's up, Notheal pen. Like to
grab him. It's It's basically ghost
hand. Love it. Love it. So, I maybe I
could try and activate that thing from a
distance if I need to. What were you
saying, Urb Matt? Um, I was saying I
want to use my towel uh Roth tooth. Yes.
Tom, um like all right, these things by
what I've heard have like special like
attack patterns like and so like if it's
like going to pull back, it's going to
do a punch. If it like brings his arm
up, it's going to smash, you know? And
then they have combinations you just got
to watch out. like they might do like
three or four attacks. They'll do like
three attacks. If his head turns
sideways, if it tilts, it does five
attacks. He he gives you the pay
attention to the patterns. He gives you
the Elder Ring beta on the uh on the
This isn't a Borggain. They're playing a
video game. Yes. Right. So, um So, so
real quick, Ryan, you had how much
Persona before you started doing all
this? Uh I had four. Four. So, yeah. So,
your current Persona should go down to
two,
right? be because I'm spending a couple
because you're spending two points.
You're spending one to channel nature
and you're spending one on a persona
spend. So your nature your current
persona should go from four to two and
your total spent should go from three to
five. Yeah. Does that make sense? Yeah.
Okay. Perfect. Now, uh because this is
aid and because he's giving you advice
before you go in about how these golem
creatures work of Tall Amroth, you get a
die of aid.
Die of aid. Yep. And that is going to be
your grand total. So, you've got three
dice from scout. Would my arcane
knowledge help here at all? No. As an
archanist. Um, you could try to help
him, but you have to describe how you're
helping him in a way that makes sense
given that this is him trying to sneak
past the golem. Right. Well, go now.
Normally, you cannot do that. However,
if you make a good description for it, I
can allow a skill to be used for that.
Yeah. Golems would use magical
detection. Sure. And so maybe the normal
physical things he would do
aren't as important as doing this
instead to avoid arcane detection. Got
it. Right. So, you know, learning those
things in the lab, you learn what's
important and what's maybe not as
important. So, here's the deal. By
helping him, that means that you're
putting yourself at risk. So, that means
at a certain level, Tane is sort of
getting involved. Does that make sense?
Yep. Like maybe you're coming forward
and you're trying to like distract the
creature or obfuscate you have your
scroll out or or or obfuscate its
magical senses so that he's harder to
detect. The point is, you know, whereas
Herber is using aid and just giving
advice and is insulated from any
conditions. You are helping. That means
you are at risk. So if Ryan fails this
and I give a condition, you're going to
get a condition, too. That's the most
important part. Understand? You stuck
your head too far into the room. You
stuck your head too far into the room.
Okay. So then you're going to get a die
of help as well, Ryan. So this is 12
dice versus five. I mean, this be good.
You got it. Balls this. Come on. You got
this, man. 12 ones. Shut up. Well, way
to wish it existence. Good job there,
Mr. Scott. Whenever you are ready, Ryan.
Okay. Yeah, you crushed it. You crushed
it. You crushed it. Okay. So, don't
forget to mark a pass for your sixes.
Wow. Don't forget to mark a pass for
your scout roll there. Uh, Saddak, very
well earned. All right, Saddakok. Um,
Tain uh uses some mystical sort of uh a
quick mystical muttering and the golem's
vision becomes temporarily uh based on
movement only and uh like a T-Rex. And
you're able to stealthfully, creepily,
moving with all of your halfling skill
and all of your burglar knowledge. You
make your way across this chamber to the
far side of the room where you can see
now that there is a
um there we go. Uh where you can see
that there is a the workbench that Tain
identified and you can see that there is
a sort of uh very faint shimmering
around the side of the room or side of
the table and you realize that there is
a hidden compartment inside of this
stone bench.
Also that is a turn. So we are going to
grind. Okay.
So um everybody mark hungry and thirsty.
Uh Saddok and Urbert also lose fresh.
Um and I have this torch right now.
Yes. And that torch goes out. So Bob
subract one subtract a torch. Yeah.
Yeah.
Cool. Let's delete that one. Get this
one up. There you go.
Cool. All right. So, Saddak, you
carefully move your way over and now
you're standing in front of this sort of
very vaguely glowing uh side entrance or
you know the side entrance but uh secret
panel on the side of the stone door or
stone table. What do you want to do?
Sadic.
Script panel. Um
well I am lockwise so I will try to open
it. Okay. Uh make a sapper test.
Criminal test. Criminal test. Uh I think
it's I think it's sapper. Oh, is it?
Yeah, I think it's sapper. Sapper was
traps. I don't know if
criminal might be locks. That's what I I
thought criminal was sneaking past
stuff. So I mean I was completely off on
that one. I know. I was completely off
on that. Uh, criminal bubble picking
pockets or picking locks. Yeah. Okay,
there you go. So, criminal. Yeah. And I
want to um look at my stuff that I can
spend points
on.
Uh, which is because I'm going to be
using my wise here to help me here. I
don't Right. All right. So, the way your
wise is going to be able to help you is
you'll be able to roll failed dice or
all your failed dice with persona and
fate spend.
Uh, and uh, is there a way I could put
my riddling nature into this? Like a No,
not like that abstract idea of like a
No, because this is Yeah, this is not a
riddle. This is just a locked locked
secret container. A criminal. I am going
to channel my quick wittedness now.
Okay. Um, and this is going to be OB
three. Ryan, independent. Independent.
OB three.
Can we use um since I have crafting as
nature, can I be like make sure you're
um No, cuz he's he's hidden. He's on the
other side. Yeah, he's on the other side
of the room. So, no one can no one can
help him or aid him. He's he's too far
away. You got this. And uh so this is so
my my right now I would have to wait for
my role to actually happen for anything
to be to use either my fate points or my
persona. Unless you want to channel your
nature again,
but this is not but but the now this
would be outside of your nature. Yeah,
which you can still do. Be based off the
Yeah, I'm I'm going to do it. So,
channel nature reduce by one. Spend a
persona point again. Reduce your
persona. SP increase your persona and
then hit your channel nature. Oh, and
it's outside my nature. And this time it
is outside of your nature. Correct.
Eight versus three. All right,
you got this.
That is not even the average. All right,
Ryan. Uh, so because this was outside of
your nature and successful, your nature
is taxed by one. So your nature does get
taxed by one. Okay. So your nature is
now three of four. Three. Yeah. Um Oops.
And but you don't need to roll anymore
because you know you you you you passed.
so expertly and under the sort of you
know you can imagine like the golem's
eyes have like this like spotlight
effect you know and they're like beaming
through the room and the halfling is
sort of like duck diving and dodging and
weaving through the beams and you know I
mean he's so small compared to this
golem like at one point you know he's
like literally hiding in the shadow of
the golem and he makes his way over to
the stone bench and he's trying to work
on this thing as like the golem is still
searching because the golem can feel
someone's present uh and you know Tane's
trying to like you know kind of keep him
back with this dispelling nature and
Sadok is working carefully moving his
hands expertly and adroitly in the
darkness. And then when finally is that
the panel slides aside and inside you
see glittering gold and a
large large sack or pouch which is
inscribed with golden and silver thread
and tied at the top with um very very
very exquisite silk.
But there is
Oh my goodness. There's eight stacks of
gold in here. Wow. And and you should
have dumped your pockets before you went
in there, man.
And I'm going to put this here, but I'm
going to change this to mysterious
pouch. And
Okay. So, I'll be like, "Get inside the
pouch." It probably controls the thing.
I uh So, I'm going to drink my water.
Throw my skin on the ground. Oh, yeah.
That's a good idea. Okay, we should
probably all do that, right? I don't
have any right now. And then I am going
to put that pouched
item where this water skin was. Oh,
you're throwing away your water skin.
Yeah. Okay. King, can I have a go? Can I
have a
swig? And then so I'll get rid of the
Put it Put your water skin in the box or
in the in the compartment so the other
finds it.
Sure, I'll do that. Oh, no. That's why I
put it on the That's why I put it on the
screen. So, and then uh I put that pouch
in that in that slot. You should be able
to access it. Yeah, you should be able
to. And then I open my sacks.
Okay. And I in each hand and I put the
gold. I don't know how much is in each
sack. Each sack can hold pack two. So,
if you carry two sacks in your hands,
you can walk out with all the gold.
That's the goal.
So, yeah, you can hear him ching ching
ching ching. Oh, the golem looks at him,
he stops. We don't ching jing ching
ching when he looks away. We don't [ __ ]
around. This guy's This guy's a pro.
Okay. Yeah, he is. Um, yeah. So,
technically, do we even have these? Yes,
we do. Technically, what that looks like
is what happened
there. There we go. Something moved. Um,
yeah. Technically what that looks like
is you've
got Oh,
Jesus. This thing really is not wanting
to work.
Okay. Yeah. So, you've
got extra slots and then you fill those
all up with gold. That's how that
actually works.
Um, so over several painstaking minutes,
you see the thief,
one coin at a time.
He's got a big bag of loot and he's
like, well, this is just a small sack, I
guess. It's a good thing. I was like,
how are you going to carry all this? Oh,
you got you got your small sacks. And
then, you know, we only roll once. This
is called Let It Ride. This is this is a
principle of of burning wheel games.
Like, we're not going to make him test
another scout check. Um, I was wondering
if you had to like make the same check
on the way out. It's called It's called
Let It Ride. Basically, also known as
the only fun once rule, but basically
like unless the situation completely
meaningfully majorly I guess if if the
situation changed, then you could Yeah,
potentially. Yeah, I like that. That's
nice. Well, I I I then I do realize I
can hold on to the water skin, right?
Because I can just put it in my pack
one. They're all there. It is a pack
one, so you can put that I'll leave it
empty. There goes the cool thing for the
next Actually, you know what I do?
Instead, I put the one coin
One little just one coin. Put a rock in
there or something. Where's that pocket
lid? No.
The pocket lens is resources.
Helena says, "Uh, it'll cost you the
torqus."
And then as carefully as you did, Saddok
sneaks past the massive
golem and you guys make your way back
out of the chamber. I told you there'd
be something worthwhile in that room.
Good job. Can I have a drink of water?
Uh, you may. Thank you. And and shut the
door.
Yep. All right, you guys. Uh, good job.
You guys did it. That was nice. MVP
right there. I'm going to eat a dried
sandwich.
Uh, yes. Watching the halfling do that
works of an appetite.
Yeah. It's like, all right, you just did
a great job. Now, cook me some dinner.
So, I'll put my uh scroll back and grab
my staff.
Okay, good stuff. Okay. Um, so uh
everyone drank water or ate a ration
except for her. Is that right? I am
drinking right now. There we go. Cool.
All right. Perfect. All right. Ber is
also now not hungry and thirsty. Okay.
Well, well earned. Uh you guys spend a
few moments back here in the statue
hallway. Uh and Saddok is uh well laden
with uh laden with loot. He's got two
bulging small sacks, one in each hand.
Uh Carnelos is is currently carrying uh
the torch and um somehow also with his
bow. No, I just didn't want to keep
messing with it, which is totally fine.
Um, but yeah, the bow is put away while
you have the torch out. And uh, yeah, so
you've got a bunch of gold now and a
small pouch which is inscribed with gold
and silver thread and filigree and tied
with a very, very fine silk thread.
I say we look inside. All right, let's
do it. Yeah. All right. Inside you open
it up and inside is a glittering white
powder with flexcks of rainbow
iridescent throughout it.
Cocaine. Elvin cocaine. It's It is It's
Elvin coke.
It's It's residium. I've heard of it. It
is. It's residium. Yes.
You're not exactly sure. I always You're
not exactly You're not exactly sure what
this is.
Can somebody identify it by any chance?
Ritualistic sacmental or anything? I
don't even know. I I could probably try
and identify it, but it's going to cost
a check. A turn? You mean a turn? Yeah.
Um I as I as I'm as I'm like think about
it. I and the twins moving around. I'm
say I'm happy to divide this gold up so
it's not all on one of us if there's
Well, I don't know if your I don't know
if your teammates have room.
Well, I have two large bags, but then I
have no hands, right? Yeah. Well, right
now you're not even carrying a weapon,
Berber. It's the neck. Oh, you got you
got a dagger around your neck. Okay, got
it. Best I can do right now. I love how
Berber started off with like a crossbow
and now he's got just a little dagger on
his neck. It wasn't a crossbow. He never
fired it. It was a trap.
Armor. I I I will say I couldn't replace
it cuz those people are poor. I I
typically have held the torch for us and
if I have I can't do that now. And if
I'll hold the torch. I just can't hold
the torches. Yeah. Thank you. Um
I could Let's see. I have a jug of
water. I could Does anyone have any
water skins that need refilling? I can
do set down the empty jug. Okay. So, I
could take one droplet of water. Take
take one from me and add it to your
stuff. Excellent. Yeah, you can read.
And someone else could do that. Got it.
All right. And now I can set my jug
down. Yep. Because it's empty. Yep. And
now I have an open hand. All right. I
give you So I could take one of those
golds. Yep. give it to you.
I gave you the sack. There you go. And
you can transfer the gold over into that
sack. All right. I'll let you grab it.
You go. All right. So, now you're
literally walking through the dungeon
with a staff in one hand and a bag of
gold in the other. Heck
yeah. That's a sign of success.
Just so we're clear. I mean, I think
that's baller, but that's Hey, now I
think you said walking. You mean
swaggering, right? Swaggering.
Oh, this gold I got I got I got I got
berscitis in my shoulder. This bag of
gold is so heavy. I can't click jingle.
Click jingle. Click jingle.
Gandalf's got a new echoing. Tie the bag
of gold to the end of your staff like a
hobo. Listen. Yeah. Meanwhile, Booth B
is literally walking around with a
glowing elven crown. So there we gota we
got to update the pixel art here, buddy.
He's He's got like three artifacts, huh?
That is true. He does have three relics.
Yeah. Uh, okay. Well, so do you do you
guys want me to try and alchemy this
stuff and figure out what it is? I don't
mind. Um, we seem to be okay at the
moment. Nothing is attacking us. Yeah, I
think I think that would be more
appropriate, James Scott, for a camp
check. Okay. Yeah. All right. So,
thinking about this before we before we
end up wrapping, right? Because remember
we it's 8:50 and usually we try to like
once we get to 9 we try to kind of wrap
things up so we can do the the end stuff
and then finish up. So obviously we
start a little late so we'll probably do
like one more major thing but you guys
can decide how where you want to end it.
Do we want to try the ritual to
seal re rebind the demon?
You just going to go for it? No torques.
Yeah. What are the consequences? Well,
if he fails, I can I can twist
or I can I can give him success with a
condition.
Okay.
Um, yeah, go for it. The problem is you
are not on the map right now, right? So,
moving to a new area requires a check.
Do we even have any Oh, we lost
somebody. Who did we lose? Oh, Matt
lost. Yeah, Matt lost off. That's all
right. Um, Solus has one check. Yes. So,
we could camp if we wanted to, but then
that's another turn of the grind. I
apologize for people at home, but once
somebody drops off, it messes up all
the, you know, I'm sure he'll be back
momentarily. There he is. There he is.
Okay.
Way to screw it all up, Matt. All right.
Um, yeah. So, Bob does have a camp
check, so you guys could go to camp. But
remember, when you go to camp, that's
another tick on that's another tick on
the thing. And you guys all did just
spend all your water and stuff drinking
and eating food for some. I don't know.
But you got three ticks left before you
grind again. So, I mean, there's there's
some minmaxing you guys could do. Can we
look at this door first? You know,
absolutely. I mean, this door seems
significant at the end of the hall. It
does.
Yeah. I think uh once Matt gets back in,
he's muted right now, but uh
I good.
I I think there is I certainly feel as
we get closer to the seals opening or
waving it is we should trying to do it
even without any torqus
is
wise or at least yeah and if anyone
wants to sacrifice themselves that also
makes it easier. Yeah, it does. It does.
But uh we do have, you know, I can't do
it because I have to do the ritual. That
is true. That is true. That is true.
Otherwise, I would be more than happy. I
would have done it for sure, but you
know, I can't. Yeah. I just I can't. It
It doesn't work that way. Yes. All
right. Not the way the magic works.
It will not allow it. Just speak to me
of the magic switch. The old magics. I
was I was there when they were written.
Um it's one of the coolest things ever
said. Um
Okay. Well, uh, what do you guys want to
do? You're stand currently standing in
the corridor of statues. Uh, at the far
end there is a large I would like to
examine this door a little more. Okay.
So, Bob, uh, you guys make spoken. Yeah.
So, you guys, you guys make your way
down the hallway past these sort of
halfformed, uh, broken statues, and as
you get closer and closer to the door,
you realize that the shapes of the
statues become more and more reptilian,
more and more draconic, as if showing a
progression from human to something
else. As you reach the far door, you see
that it's now revealed to be carved out
of a single slab of obsidian and
features a large black iron ring set on
one side of it in order to open the
door. Carved in relief upon the obsidian
is maybe as many as a dozen howling
faces carved into the door. But as you
look, you realize that they are sort of
arrayed. The faces that look like they
have their mouths open like they're
howling are arrayed in a sort of pattern
of sort of three in like a semicircle
like like three in an arc and then like
four in an arc and then like five in an
arc.
Some kind of riddle
or a puzzle that three in an arc, four
in an arc, and five in an arc. Yeah. So
12 total.
Riddle me this Batman.
Yeah, Riddler.
Hello. Um,
but the door does not appear to be
locked. Her Ber begins examining it,
pouring over it, and feels fairly
confident that it is not trapped as I
did not make him make a scout check. Um,
and uh, three people have to howl, then
four people have to, then five. But it
does it does have a a door. Isn't Dragon
Bane? It does have a door. It does have
a door pole. I'm just saying. It does
have a ring. I mean, well, heck, the the
other group couldn't get in because they
don't have five people.
How many seasons are in uh this world?
Four. So, you are
thinking doesn't know this. You guys are
I did buy the box set, though. Uh I did
see that. I I kind of want to get the um
Oh, hold I'll be right back. I want to
get the um What do you want to get the
Oh, you know, you could go. Okay. Um I
want to get the um GM screen for Dragon
Bane, I think. Yeah, it's a nice one.
One of the only things I don't really
own and my kids have kind of been
wanting to play it, so it just seems
like it'd be easy to do at the table.
The added bonus is the GM screen does
fit in the box. I I saw Was that you
that someone posted that and I was like
that is amazing. That also No, I I
wasn't the one that posted it, but
that's where I keep mine
just so good. I mean, I have basically
everything in the box besides the actual
little booklets because I have all those
minis. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've got
three big books, right? I got Path of
Glory, Beastiary, and Rule Book. And
then I still have the box set with the
the book that it came with, the little
GM book or the rule book is like
disintegrating. So, I have to use my
other book all the time. But I have like
the the map up here above me, like
sticky sticky noted up above me. I
thought I thought you could you would
appreciate this. But yeah, this is the
the cloth one. This is the cloth map of
the fancy of the misty veil. I mean,
check the quality. I mean, oh, it's so
good. It's like the stitching on the
end. It fits so thick. Buy that
separately. I bought it at the free
league booth at PAX.
It is so good. Such a great map. And
they g they I bought I bought dragon
bane. I bought the new one ring elven
book, the realm of the three. I bought
the dragon bane box set, the the one
ring. I bought uh the two I bought the
Moria cloth map and I bought the Misty
Veil cloth map and I bought something
else and they gave it to me for like
cost. Nice. You didn't name drop
yourself? Oh
yeah, Stephen came over cuz those people
are just workers. They have no idea like
Oh, no. They knew who I was. Okay. Cuz
some last when we were at or Well, like
I said, no to be very clear. Random
people to be very clear too, you know,
they they work with like Stephen. So,
like he came over and like was like,
"Oh, you know, take care of him." And I
was like, "All right, same."
That's pretty baller. All right.
So, here we are.
I'm not pulling on the door. Just
letting you guys know.
But once it's open, I will go in and
look around.
I have
to just pull the door then like, "Go
ahead, Do have fun."
Um,
so besides, uh, so there could be some
sort of we could, you know, I think in
these situations we could try to work it
out like actually if there's if we think
there's something here or we could, you
know, try and find out like we've been
doing the whole time. Well, or or make
like if maybe there's we we have you're
you're puzzle wise, right? Yes. I'm
trying to think of how that's a puzzle.
Um, does it look like they could rotate
or turn or slide or No, they seem to be
very much carved into the obsidian.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I mean, maybe
the people maybe we have to posture the
same way they are in front of each one
and then go down down down like three
people do it on one, four do the other,
five other. I just want to make sure
that I'm very clear about this. The door
has a handle, like a big ring that opens
it. Just Just being very comfortable.
No, I'm just like there's no like, oh,
there's no seal. There's no hinges.
Nope. It's a door. It's made of Is that
door pole where the three, the four, and
the five are like centered around? No,
cuz the poles over on the side, you
know, like it's it's made of black iron
and it's sort of set into the obsidian
door, but the the center of the door is
more of like a motif. It's like a
decoration. I got nothing, guys. Unless
you want me to try and see if there's
anything magical going on. I mean, you
could always spend a chat. You could
always You could always spend a test,
you know. I mean, that's when in doubt.
But, you know, obviously I could I could
use I don't know if I could use arcanist
in my wizard. Yeah, there's not really
anything arcanist here, but you could
probably lure master or, you know,
something like that. Scholar or
something. It's kind of written. It's
written, so you could scholar.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, there's some there's
even if it's just artistic, there's
maybe something to figure out what this
what this is, but it'll cost it'll cost
you a test and it'll cost you a turn.
That's That's So maybe I could do
scholar, use my puzzle wise, and maybe
leverage my wizard sight if I think I
need it. Um to see if there's anything
magical or arcane going on here. All
right. Sounds like sounds like that's
what you're doing, GM Scott. So, if you
guys are okay with that. All right. All
right. I want you to do that. I would
like to help him with um the wise tal
Roth. God, I'm never gonna get that
right.
It would take us two checks to get back
to camp. Uh, it depends where you're at.
You would have to make a No, because
you'd have to make a dungeonering check
to navigate the the halls to get to to
the twisting halls to get back to say
the ancient tomb and then you could
you're on the map and then you can get
back to camp. Hell, you could get back
to town if you wanted to. Yeah.
Um, okay. So, GM Scott, make a scholar
check. OB two. All right. Can I help him
with my wise? You can aid him with your
wise. Thank you. And so I'm getting aid.
And so I have four dice ob two right
now.
Um does anyone else have anything they
might be able to aid me with or help?
Does this door have any elish to it's
all is all humans and reptilian? Is that
like what we're No, everything here is
kind of
Elvish. Could he help him with his
nature of remembering something old?
Yes. I mean, yeah. I mean, I will think
back if there's any stories that I know
of any human transformations to dragons
or reptilian creatures, theologian,
anything aid with. Uh, I don't think
this has any religious
connotations, but you can help with
remembering, Bob. You can aid with Tano.
Okay. So that's one aid from top from
Matt and one help from Bob. Yep. Yep.
Okay. So I'm up to five dice. Yes. Um
got this. Reading weird obscriptions. OB
two. Okay. Yep.
All
right. Let's do this.
Hey, there you go, my man. Excellent.
Mark a scholar. Success.
My scalar goes up by one to three. Nice.
It takes you a few moments and the turn
uh burns on and of course another torch
needs to be lit because uh the torch has
gone out again. So you guys will need I
light and give it to her. Got it.
Perfect.
Um it takes you a few moments and then
you recall with uh some uh with the help
of Karanolas less so with the aid of Ber
although he does understand the
significance of this place and to these
elves and to the power that these elves
believed in music. The way that they
bound and summoned demons was through
music. And as you look at the shape in
the array you realize they're not
screaming. They are singing and they are
arrayed as a choir.
All righty then.
[Laughter]
If I would put a harp as a put a harp.
You think the harp in there or you think
we need the harp? Yes. Someone's
maybe. You want this harp? Open the
door.
I'm waiting until the GM's done talking.
I'm wait. I I will. I just want to make
sure the GM's done. Okay, I'm done
talking. All right, I open the damn
door. I check for traps first. Yes, of
course you you do check for traps, and
there are none present, so you're you're
fine. And the door is flung wide,
revealing beyond a chamber, which
actually flickers and glows with some of
its own illumination, although it is uh
inconsistent and flickering.
Think I'll have a look around. Oh, this
is crazy. So sweet. Oh, that is sick.
Oh, man. All right, Final Fantasy.
Before you is a sixsided hexagon chamber
filled with alternating obsidian and
redstone slabs across the walls. The
ceiling slowly rises above to a singular
point 20 ft high with a height of 8 ft
at the walls before it begins to dome
over. Directly at the point of the
ceiling, there is a pitted globe made of
an ancient crystal that is blackened and
cracked, but still sputters with a weak
fluttering light. The result of a
continual light spell that has been in
existence for over a thousand years.
Directly across from you, an altar
carved of the blackest marble sits
directly across the main entrance, and
subtle runes are inscribed upon its
surface.
In the back, a strange dark sigil is
carved into the
wall. Although difficult to see, there
are two passages from this room. One to
the left of the altar and one to the
right of the altar. So, look kind of
between those two those two pillars.
There's like those dark there's like the
hallway there. Bob, as you enter, you
immediately jump in and begin looking
around. Uh, of course. However, there's
nothing to scout, so you're lucky and
doesn't actually trigger stuff. Oh, man.
But um as I said before uh yeah so this
room is crackling with its own light a
little bit. Um and there is an altar
which is uh actually I would say Bob as
you come you did see that there are
subtle runes carved into the alter
surface and there is a crackling light
and then there is two hallways one to
the left and one to the right Bob.
All right well
um the runes do they look like anything
that we've seen before? They are
different. They are an ancient ancient
uh language perhaps even not even Elvin
be pre predating Elvin to or it's a very
ancient Elvin.
H I could spend some time trying to
think about think on this, but I was
wondering if this uh altar has any
significance to the the
theologian perhaps.
Yeah, we'll go up to the altar and uh
give it uh a study. Yeah. So Booth, this
uh Amos is quite sure that this is got
some sort of religious significance, but
you're not sure that there's anything
necessarily magical at work at the
altar. If anything, you believe that
this is a chamber dedicated to the dead.
[Music]
We're in their graveyard. Do do I know
any songs of the dead? Perhaps.
Can
I remember my singing?
Oh, you picked something other than
sing, didn't you? When you I have sing.
Oh, you did? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I just if
I was thinking if I know a song uh like
a song of the dead or like a almost what
you would sing at funerals or I guess
sacrificial things, I could try to sing
something here. Um I don't know if I do
know anything, but if I did, I would
start singing.
All right, Bob. What are you trying to
sing? I I want to sing a song of the of
the dead. Uh there's there's got to be a
song that like people sing in this time.
It's a good idea. So it's not going to
cost you a test. Okay. Bob begins
singing an ancient elven lament. And as
he does so, his
voice is joined by a musical
accompaniment from the nearby left
hallway where you begin to hear the soft
chiming plucking sound of harpstrings.
Nice job.
I I make sure I finish my verse. Oh yes.
As you finish your lament for the dead,
you can softly begin to hear that the
sounds of the chiming beautiful
forlororn harp begin to fade away.
Well, I feel like everything is pointing
do left.
All
right. Uh, so we'll start to march down
the hallway again. This opening, making
sure everything's good. All right.
Searching for tracks, of
course. Uh, this one. Yes.
Okay. All right.
All right. To the That look good. To the
left there is a low hallway filled with
freshly tilled earth and dirt. You can
see numerous signs of bones and
partially decayed bodies laying amongst
the dirt.
However, as you look into the
uh depth of the hallway, you realize
that with the flickering light of your
torch that it extends fairly straight
ahead and doesn't deviate or change too
much.
Why is that not a
thing? Um,
sorry. Yes. Okay.
And at the end of the hallway filled of
this kind of grave dirt, you can see
flittering in the
dark a harp floating in air.
Where is it? I can't see
it. I go, elf, is there a
um you seem to know about
this. Do you know of anything of how to
get this? Because it seems like it's too
easy.
You say that as I almost got killed by a
golem earlier. Keep singing as you go
and collect it.
Um, sure.
Um, I walk forth um, singing the same
song that I sung before. Okay, Bob, as
you start to move forward, uh, the harp,
what was in the Star Wars movie? I I
close my eyes and just trust the force.
Yes. The harp does begin to respond to
your elven words as you begin to string
forward. And you can now see that the as
you get closer and closer and closer to
the harp, you can see that this harp is
made out of an ancient uh um sort of
white bluish colored wood um carved over
and it's uh the strings seem to be made
out of hair as you approach. Oh wow. And
but you can see that they're sort of
plucking and almost reverberating with
your voice. Not your sound, not from
your voice, but from the sound that
you're singing, from the the song that
you're singing. Um, as as you move
forward, it begins to make light
trilling noises and and tinkling noises
and all the like.
All right. How close am I to it? I mean,
you know, as close as you want to be, I
guess. I go right up to it. Yep. And
it's, you know, maybe even now seems
more, you know, strong and it seems to
be
Is it just sitting on the ground or is
it on a pedestal? It said it was
floating. It's floating in the air.
Floating. Okay. Um
um did you say it was translucent? Uh it
it's made of like a blue white material,
but like a a wood, but it's very
strange. It's It's kind of there and not
there all at the same time. Okay. Um I
looked Oh gosh, this is going to be some
kind of I look back at my party and for
the um Oh, keep going. Okay. Yeah, we
look at you waiting for you.
Grab it. Run. I and I assume yeah, you
know, that I Is there like a musical
talent in this game? No, I don't think
so. But there probably would be a skill
that would do that. I don't know if
there's a perform skill. Well, I was
just going to say cuz I would I would
grab it and play along with it if I knew
how to play an instrument. But maybe
I'll just sing with it as I try to grab
it. Probably be beginner's luck. Um, all
right. Well, so you keep singing and
then you grab it. Yes.
[Music]
Oh gosh. Uhoh. Oh my gosh. All that
freshly killed Earth. All right. Some of
those bodies
violently rip free of the ground and
begin ripping and pulling themselves up
as they begin pulling themselves out of
the ground. And you are surrounded by
six zombies which have pulled themselves
free surrounding the group in the
hallway particularly surrounding
Caranolas who of course is uh at the end
of the hallway with the heart. We'll
point to him and say he did it. The uh
the zombies begin immediately closing in
on you. What do you guys do? I run. I
run. Oh, get out of there, Coronalus.
Come on. Amos Amos might do something. I
am running towards my party. Amos. Yes.
Uh is going
to kill himself, cleanse his face. Um
Amos, and he might cast a spell walk in
the meantime.
Amos is going to speak with the voice of
the thousand thousand.
Okay. The voice of the thousand thousand
voices of the lords of the life and
death erupt from my
throat as one with a crack of
thunder. And uh we are going to use the
exterpation invocation.
Okay. What the hell is that? There's a
lot of words. Page 226.
It's on page 226. I'm not going to get
all of them.
Okay. Hey, the extrepation of the lords
of life and death as you shear away the
power that animates undead and emilates
them in a power of blue flame. It
emulates all undead within range of your
voice. And if they are successfully
performed, the targets are instantly
destroyed where they stand. All right.
Well, you do not have amulet. You do not
have the amulet of soul, the day star.
So, not yet. This is going to take a
turn. Take a turn and four burdens. And
four burdens. Oh my god. Nice. So, we're
carrying you out of this. Uh, okay. So,
booth me. You immediately take the four
burden. Uh, to set the obstacle, total
the might of the creatures that wish to
target right now. I I don't have to
target them all. Right. No, you can,
though. But I I don't know what their
might is. Yeah, we'll just say it's
enough. You It's You're might three.
You're in a badass position. You got the
hard. The difficulty is based on how
what how many there are. Oh, I see. I
see. Okay. Well, there might's two. All
right. So, uh, I'm going to go
for So, bite four would be Oh, so it's
two each. Two each is what it is. Yes,
correct.
Um, does your might make a difference?
Yeah, his might is His might is three.
So, what if it was four? He could target
eight of them or four of them. Yeah, I
can target
He could target total value of equal to
twice his own might. Yeah. So I can I
can I can try three.
Um that is ob six.
[ __ ] rock and roll.
Um don't finish your sentence just yet.
Why? I'm going to drop I'm going to drop
my pack. Yeah. Dig to the bottom to pull
out that elven spell book. Okay.
And I'm gonna raw dog cast Destiny of
Heroes. Okay. Straight from the book.
Okay. Well, we got a couple of things
happening here. Uh GM Scott is going to
cast Destiny of Heroes, which is free,
right? Um GM Scott, um by all means,
please cast. Uh how long do you want
this to last for? Um it's going to be
targeting one other person for two. And
I guess he is trying to kill them. So,
all right. four GM Scott.
All right, let's see if we can get this
going here. This is an Archonist check
for four also. Oh, this is a free
casting time. So, as Boofy, as you begin
to cast the things, GM Scott throws his
pack on the ground, he pulls out his
bout and he speaks the words, channeling
raw power into the very fabric of the
fate of destiny. He strums the He strums
the strings like a harp, infusing you
with heroic power. the the the the
magical harp euphonius begins glowing in
Coronal's hand, aiding you in this.
Yeah, the horn of you have summoned the
horn. All right, Jim Scott, go for it.
All right, so this is OB four. Yes.
And I am definitely going to have to
channel my nature in this one. Okay,
perfect. We're all channeling.
All righty. So, channel nature. That
gets rid of my last persona. Yep.
And I think Oops. I think you made your
I went the I went the wrong way. Yeah,
my persona goes up. All right. All
right. So, I'm gonna roll this. Casting
the spell. Yep.
Oh, succeed. What? Look at that. All
right. Filled with the destiny of
heroes. Amos Sheepscar peasant uh begins
to glow with the powerful might of the
destiny of
heroes. Engaged in Regalia, he speaks
down for the lords of light, of
creation, of life, fury of life and
death. That's the extra traits the
things your might is now four uh booth.
So now you can target four of them,
right? But I don't think I can I don't
think I can succeed at that many. But
six but six is as good as eight, buddy.
You're not going to get six anyways. You
might as well help with um No, because
he's casting this for uh for free. It
would cast it would take it longer. It
would it would [ __ ] it up his casting.
So Okay, cool. Um
I'm saying just embrace the suck. Just
go for it. Get what you get. use a trade
against yourself. Go for it.
But see, I want to try and succeed at
it. Oh, okay. All right. Listen, buddy.
It's up to you. Um,
so eight success and no one could get
any aid, right? So,
uh, I
can channel my nature. Yep. I
can use my trait touched by the gods.
Yep.
Um, I have the the sacrament of a holy
water I can use as part of this casting.
Yep. So, that's a gear die.
It gives me 10 dice.
So, you're not going to make six
anyways.
Oh, wow.
That's some confidence from our GM.
I'm just saying once if you've priced
yourself into P remember because if you
fail I can still give you success
no matter what the OB is. Can you use
your fancy hat? I
can spend my other two persona. Get
another two dice. Okay.
Yeah. The GM makes you get success but
the other team comes in and steals a
heart from us.
12 dice versus ob.
Do you have what are your wises? Booth
be demon. Ah, that's not going to help
you. Yeah, I was looking at that. Yeah,
that's why I wanted to go do the ritual
for Yeah. Yeah, I understand.
So, there's no way at all to help him at
all, right? Not really. I mean, he's I
mean I mean here I mean you know what it
is. It is his invocation time is one. Do
you have ritualist? If you have rich
list, you can help him.
Needs a little salt wise.
You know what? Here. Wait, wait. Booby,
booby. Wait, wait. I will say Bob is
helping you because he is singing and
the power of the harp is now
reverberating with his singing. So, that
is a help die. That's not That's pretty
good. Oh, 13.
I was sort of thinking use my my wise
towel or m whatever. Sorry, I'll never
say that right. It's just not going to
happen. Derek, just don't. You got to
learn the Dwarfven version. Just call
it. You know what? Just call it TA. Just
call it TA. TA. All right. I was
thinking like I I'm speaking telling him
the the old language because I know that
so I'm speaking I I don't know that but
the old language to translate so they
understand it more. Yeah, that sounds
good. All right. Booth B got a dice of
aid too from Laughing Outlaw from Berber
from from his knowledge of Tall Amrath.
All right. 14 dice versus Abate. Yeah.
Do you have Scott anything from you? Do
you have do you have the do you have a
rich list or theologian? I have neither
of those. Okay. Ryan, anything from you?
Um, no. No, no, no. Unless, but I have a
I have a nature of of uh running.
That's not going to help. Look at me.
Catch me. Well, all right then, Booth B.
May the force be with you. Let's go.
Yes. You got this. I see some sick ass.
He made it. He did.
Okay, this is going to be a hard MVP
pick between Ryan and the gold and
boot. You know what? A is too [ __ ]
high. They all explode. I'm just going
to kill them all. They just the the the
zombies that are technically four of
them are destroyed, but the other two
are just like my
lord. They climb back. Now you're
necromancer. Now you have minions. They
climb back. They they are too cowed by
the power of the fury of life and death.
And Bob, you were surprised to learn
that while holding the harp, you can
understand them. I understood them
talking to me. Yes, you you heard them
go, "No, not that. Not the power of the
lords of life and death. He is come. The
destroyer, the unraveler of the worlds."
Look at that crown. That is no mere
peasant. That is a The urged Lord. Um
and they they slink bad for him. They
slink down underneath the uh the ground
as uh as they are wiped out by the power
of the lord of light. Now now I got to
be Now booby gain four or gain four
burden and make an ob health test with
four dice. With four dice and no one can
help him with this. Tane looks over at
Amos teamwork. Well, look at the good
news. If if you had failed, I would have
given you a condition probably and then
you'd have to make the OB four health
test possibly with a penalty and then
get more conditions. So this might work
out well for you. So, all right, buddy.
Time to let's let's just get four dice
and go home. That's that's Yeah.
All right. You roll. So, you become
hungry and thirsty, angry, afraid, and
exhausted.
Wow. So, I will carry him out. I'm going
to put him in the bag now.
I You literally rolled as worse as you
can. That's great.
Um, yep. From top to bottom. Yep. So you
go you go in in order. So hungry,
thirsty.
Level four stigmata. Yes. And he is
bleeding from his eyes and ears.
As he should be. All the undead are
burned by blue fire reduced to piles of
salt. They are turned into piles of
salt. But at what cost? Oh, we should
take Now that's a torch bearing. That's
a [ __ ] cooking. That is a [ __ ]
torch bear move right there. Yes. If you
guys want to gather salt, I'll take that
salt. You guys, you guys can gather
salt. I will tell why. I should have
helped.
Oh, you know what? I I I feel bad for
that. Where I have an empty wine skin.
Can I fill it with salt? Uh, yes. I
think you can. I'm doing the same thing.
All right. This This lint here is not
lint. It represents a pile of of undead
salt. Now, remember this is Hey, I got
some of that. Can I switch it out? Uh,
you could throw away your normal lint
and replace it with undead salt if you
want. Perfect. To be clear, this is not
just salt. This is undead
salt that was turned by the power of the
gods into pillars of salt. So, you guys
can uh you guys can steal up as much of
this as you want. Oh, you guys can't
control it. I know. I'm not much room.
All right. Hold on a sec here. Uh undead
salt. All right. Now, I wish I had that
jug back. Let me think. Torches can be
held in packs of four. Yes. So, I can I
still have a bag. I I still have two
bags and I can carry six in one bag with
two. I'm taking one. I'm taking one.
No. Give me one of them. We love the
salt. I'm going to leave the lint and
I'm going to take the salt.
I put too many there, but we'll, you
know, we'll say there's six. There's
six. I grab Stop taking my salt.
All right. So, so to be clear, you you
threw away the lint pocket. One, two,
three. Yeah. See, we'll we'll find out
next session. That'll be the most
important piece of lint we ever needed.
Right. Right. Ciph.
One, two, three, four, five. Don't
forget there's also a harp that needs to
be holding the harp. No, you're holding
a bow. How are you holding a harp?
Because I'm physically I The bow has to
be holding. I'll carry the harp. No, you
will not carry this harp.
It speaks to me. Can't you put something
in your cover like your bow? Yeah,
that's what I'm saying. I I can I will
hold the harp. All right. All right. Let
me change. I'm a little messed up, guys.
Oh, yeah. You
So, yeah, I lock eyes with him for a
second. I say teamwork. Yeah, just
starts bleeding from the eyes and starts
to collapse. I run over to him. I'm
like, what the [ __ ]
I I just I just pull my bag out and go
put him in the bag. Just rub some salt
in it. You'll be fine.
I didn't think I could do so many.
Okay, so that is Euphonius Harp of the
Grave. It is pack two.
I can hold it with two hands. Yeah, it's
hold. It's carried. Uh you can wield it
with two hands or you can hold it. So
yeah, but it takes two. But you can
Yeah. Um, okay. So, you got Euphonius,
harbor of the
grave, and you guys uh have claimed all
the undead pillar salt that you want and
yeah. All right. Well, it's 9:30 and you
guys got the [ __ ] harps. So,
what do you guys camp? What do you guys
want to do? I I I wait. I uh
town checks. I immediately give uh Amos
uh a big jug of s of water as he's look
as he's imperiled. Okay. Uh from my tank
I briefly wash the blood out of my face.
Right. Which is another or it's back
out. Which is another good idea because
if you guys grind Yeah. He will be he
would become injured.
So I'll get rid of one of my water.
Okay. And you can get you can clear your
hungry thirsty. Guys, if I don't have a
drink of water in the next five minutes,
my leg is going to
break. That's how bad it is. Uh, we need
to camp.
Yeah, we only have one check. We have We
only need one. But what do you want to
do? Take more checks. Get more. Uh, I
mean, you don't have But also remember,
if you go So, you had five ticks when
you went to camp. That was that was your
first. Then you went back to
adventuring. That's second. If you go to
camp, that's the third, right? Just FYI.
We have another one and then we can
capture them. I mean, I I'm fine with
that, but alternatively, you you guys
might just want to just end it here in
the in the relic room or that's just we
just we we need to tend to uh to uh
Amos's right. I mean, injuries. He does
have But you need checks for those to
get recovery on him. I mean, you're
saying we could go to camp. We have no
checks to do anything, right? You only
have the one check uh from Caronalus.
So, which would probably be to like look
at the look at the stuff, right? And you
wanted to look at the you still wanted
to look at the powder and all this other
stuff. And so so what happens is we get
the brine, we all become hungry and
thirsty. Then we have four more. Yep.
But a turn hasn't happened yet. So yeah.
Yeah. Right. Have a little bit of time.
And I think we do need to end here.
Yeah, I agree. I agree. All right. Well,
we'll wrap it up here then. That was a
crazy session. What a whirlwind session.
So when we set our goals, uh Ryan, I
thought you would never get yours and I
would get mine. And it turns out it's
just the opposite because didn't you say
you wanted to find the harp? I mean, I
wanted to prove ourselves. Oh, that was
that. Okay. Yeah. Well, I think you
proved yourself jumping through the legs
of a freaking golem. Yeah. I think I
worked towards it to be All right. So,
let's uh go a chain that never happened.
Yeah. So, let's let's let's go let's
start let's start with Bob and we'll go
left to right. So, we're going to do
your goal, your belief, and your
instinct. Bob, what was your goal? My
goal was to get the gold necklace or the
uh you made progress towards it because
you did go there to get it and we found
out and you found it was and you found
out information about it but you
obviously did not get that. So earn a
fate point for that. And then what was
your belief? My belief is I will always
have my friends back. I never really
that so I would say no. No. And then
your instinct is to always scout and you
guys obviously that came up a couple
times and you passed those checks. So
earn another fate point for that. Thank
you. All right, Ryan, what was your
goal? Uh, my goal was to prove our
worthiness to the elven spirit. Well,
you guys got the harp and that was what
he wanted you to do. So, yeah. Okay.
Yeah. I mean, so that was that was the
quest he gave. So, persona achieved. I
mean, you haven't gone and gotten his
official approval yet, but he did say,
"Return for me with Euphonius, the harp
of the grave, and I will know that you
have proven your worth." And you did
that. So, uh, what was your belief? I
believe the group needs me more than I
need them. And I think going in there
and getting that thing.
Yeah. So, earn your fate point for sure.
There because Kuranas couldn't do it.
Right. Coronas jumped out like a [ __ ]
You guys say that, but I I'm a And then
Ryan, your instinct did not come up
obviously. So, uh Jim Scott, what was
your goal? My goal was to defend the
party using my wizards agus, which I did
not cast. I did not cast off. So, that's
fine. Uh belief. My belief was that my
reliance on other people's
uh wait hold on. No, my reliance on
others highlights my weakness in my
magic. Um, when I gain enough power, I
will be I will no longer need them. So,
well, you didn't cast you you did cast a
spell. I cast a spell and it was useful.
Yes. So, I will say and and you had to
make him more powerful. So, I I I will
say that's good for a fate point. All
right. And then what is your instinct?
Oh, to make make a map. And you did. To
make the map. Yep. And you did. So, earn
another fate point. So, two fate points
for there for you for Tain. Uh, Amos,
your goal?
Uh, goal was to cleanse the bottom of
the well of the undead inhabitants that
had already been cleared.
Yes. Did you say we had to do it or that
it just had to be done? What did you
specifically write? I wrote cleanse the
bottom of the well of the undead
inhabitants. Sounds like you did it to
me personal point.
It's just called, look, it's just called
hiring outside contractors. Uh, that's
right. Was your instinct? Uh, sorry. So,
what was your belief? Uh, defender of
the defenseless. Uh,
I don't think so today. I don't know
that you really did anything to really
take action to defend the help. Almost
was kind of defenseless.
All right. All right. All right. Fate
point. Fate point. If you want to call
him defenseless, but you know, he did
jump out. I I was holding a harp, not my
bow. All right. All right. All right.
All right. All right. All right. Yes.
You stepped up. I You do You do put
yourself at great risk there to unleash
the Was that a level three circle? That
was a level three. Yeah. Okay. Um well,
you can see what happens when you do
that, so that's good. Uh although the OB
eight was insane, though. Uh well, no,
but it was counterbalance. He rolled
eight. He got the OB eight and then
failed the OB four with a zero, which is
brutal. And then lastly, your instinct
there, Amos, uh 10 the wounded when we
cancelled. Did not come up. All right,
Her Ber, what was your goal?
Uh my goal was to I will explore
tala ta ta for the heart. All right.
Perfect. Yes. Obviously succeeded. Get
your get your fate point or I'm sorry.
Persona point. Persona point. All right.
Um instinct didn't matter cuz Mr. Bob
kept jumping through the doors before I
could inspect him. So there was no
traps. There was there were no traps on
the door. So don't forget your persona
point though for your instinct or for
your uh goal. And then what's your
belief? I uh believe if you are in a
dungeon, you should explore new areas.
Yeah, good. Cool. Get a get a fate
point. You guys definitely explored a
bunch of new areas today. Oh, yeah. And
then my creed didn't really come up. I
was like, I will do what I can to
protect your party. You should not have
a creed yet. You can have it, but you
don't get rewarded for it until you get
to level three, so it doesn't matter.
Well, I was just filling it in because
it was there. Did anybody Did anybody
offer up a gall bit of gallows humor? a
salt joke people did maybe a little bit.
Um I think
said before I passed it he said okay now
I die. Y you know what that is exactly
the kind of thing that that Gallows
humor is aiming for. Absolutely. That is
totally gallows humor. So, uh,
absolutely. Uh, go ahead and get
yourself a We've never given this
before, so I don't even know what you
earn for No, cuz it's pretty much I mean
that our self-deprecating humor on our
poor die rolling is always good in
there. Yeah, right. It's almost a gimme.
Yeah, that is true. Um, but yes, yours
yours stood out for sure, Amos. Uh, oh,
it's got to be performed in character.
Sorry. There you go. There you go. Uh,
but I'll give you a fade point because
you were so close. Uh, so earn a fade
point for your gallows humor, Amos. All
right. Lastly, did
anybody Nope, that's it. Okay, so MVP,
the person who made the critical role of
the session. And then there's the
teamworker, the person who worked the
hardest to keep the group together and
moving forward, get them in good shape,
the one who despite the risks, who spent
their gear and sacrificed their goals
all in the name of their companions. And
then the MVP is the person who made the
critical role of the session. Well, MVP
is probably Amos with the the killing of
the zombies so we don't have to avoid
any fights. Yep. Um, that seems pretty
straightforward. Or Ryan should be the
other one. Stealth check. Well, that
that was great because all that goal is
going to be awesome. Yeah. Well, I I
think the the if I think of a a singular
role that was so pivotal and just
impactful and just I it's it's the the
channeling of a spell. It was the
thousand,000. It's the thousand
thousand. It was epic. It was just odd.
So I think that's certainly the
12 nailed it. I think Saddak with the
teamwork. He you know he's he's giving
people his water. He's holding on to the
goal. He was having a torch half the
session. Um he I mean he worked it to go
back in there to get us right. He did
sneak in against the golem by himself
and then uh and then succeeded and then
also criminalled it open and got all the
I was ready to help him. All right. All
right. So teamworker for you. Teamwork.
What do you get for teamwork? You got a
persona point for teamwork. You get a
persona point for MVP. Good job, guys.
All right. Sick. Sick. All right. Well,
I got to say, you people gripe about the
flavor text and spells. The ones in
torch bear are speak with a thousand
thousand voices of the lords of life and
death. It's like, yeah, I see. I see
that. And they're a really good name.
That was a good name. All very are good.
Yes. Granted, it's a lot cooler when you
roll eight out of, you know, get eight
out of eight instead of like being like
W and like two and it's like
um
I think if you I think if you don't get
it none of them disappear
um well no because if you fail the check
then I get to make the decision right I
can give you success or I can twist and
if I su if I give you success like I
could say like you know the the power of
the gods channels through you you're
exhausted and you but you succeeded oh
so you could have twi you could have
succeeded game of condition then he
could have balls the 04 roll like he did
and then really hurt himself that would
have been crazy correct that is that
That's what I was secretly hoping for.
Yeah, that would have been rough. I
wanted to get him his basically his bar
would have been filled up except for one
more until death. Yeah, that would have
been that would have been interesting.
Yes. So, that's uh and that's also a lot
of burden. Although, it's nice you got
your you found your shrine to the
immortals. You guys you might be able to
take some nice advantage of that and
some of your burden. Get rid of it
without a check. Right. Exactly. Pretty
good. So, that's a good reason to also
get some camp checks and get back there
and do that. So, um, Jim Scott just
needs to figure out an excuse to burn
blow off this wizard so that he can, uh,
uh, when those cuz I was looking forward
to doing this for two weeks. Yeah. Yeah.
I was happy you got that to see what
you'd been planning. I finally spent
three fate and three persona. So, I'm
level two now. No. Oh, sweet. You're not
level two until you go back. And once
you go back to town. Yeah. But once you
go back to town, you ready to be two.
Yeah. And then that gives you an extra
slot in your memory palace. Is that
right? I I I can now hold two spells in
my memory. Perfect. Just like just like
Gyax intended. Yes. I was reading about
how um uh because it's so big in your
spell book because it takes up like when
people have high circle spells, they
tend to never actually memorize them.
They only put them into scrolls. Um
Okay. Because it's just much more
efficient because it doesn't take up
your whole memory palace because sure,
you know, the most your memory palace
gets up to is like not enough to really
keep a lot of level five spells. So
yeah, that's not a bad idea. So you keep
a variety in your palace and then your
big scrolls big spells in there because
you use those less frequently. So all
right. Well, and we also got some nice
skill ups today, which is good. Um, so
yeah, good stuff. And the cool thing is
I can now memorize that spell that I
just cast out of the spell book and
doesn't exist anymore, right? Although
now you can't, but Destiny because you
because you burned it out of the book.
So you know, I did. I figured Dennis
needed the help. Listen, it was cool. It
was awesome. It was an epic moment. And
uh Amos is still bleeding from his ears
and eyes, but you know, he's he's only
angry, afraid, and exhausted now. But at
least he's not thirsty. At least he's
not injured. Yeah. Right. Cuz without
that plus one might, I don't know if uh
Well, he would have only been able to do
he'd only been able to do half the
group. And then I probably would have
been less inclined to like just wipe
them off the map. And you got So then
we'd have had a big fight after then had
to have conflict. Yeah. Kill conflict
for sure. Or you'd have to flee. But
then I would have been like, "Oh, but
where I would have gotten my goal of
protecting the group with Aegis, but
Yeah. Yeah. Well, you know, can't be
choosing. I I do everything I can in
this game to not gain fate or persona.
There you go. That's that's that's
that's a real teamworker vibe. Um yeah.
All right everybody. Uh so I'm going to
go ahead and stop the recording. So
thanks everybody for joining us for
session five of torch bear. Obviously
the group now has euphonius harp of the
grave. They'll probably be making their
way back to the guardian spirit soon at
the reoquary to retrieve the dragon bone
dagger uh the dragon bone blade which
technically puts them in a position
maybe to actually try to go fight the
now named uh poria. um and potentially
maybe defeat this while the demon
awakens. We'll see. And how will
Saturday crew [ __ ] them over? We'll find
out next week if you're a patron. You
get to watch them as their thing over
because they'll find a way, you know,
like this guy just I'm I'm predicting
the future. These guys are going to come
back. They're going to be like, "Yes, we
go to the spirit." And he's like, "Oh,
sorry. The other group was here and just
took them." Oh my gosh. Yeah, they can.
You know how they know that? They watch
our videos. That's That is true. They do
watch our videos. They do not. Everyone
has sworn. Now, I have no way of
enforcing that. It's only based off of
honors. So, you know, honor honor
honors. Scouts honor. So, uh so thanks
everybody and we'll see you next time on
Nights the Last Call. Thanks everybody.
