recording. All right. So, uh session
three of the Sunday crew named TBD uh is
under is is underway. Uh so, welcome
back, boys. Uh thank you for uh
indulging me a little bit while I dealt
with uh the complete destruction of my
life. That's great. Thank you. Now
that's over. Yeah, now that now that
that's over. Um
so, last time uh that we played uh GM
Scott was not here. So today we're going
to be doing two sets of sort of
prologues. One is going to be a prologue
given by a member of the party. Cannot
be Dennis Boothby uh because he gave it
last time. And this is an opportunity
for kind of the player to catch us up on
what happened and uh potentially if it's
satisfactory recover a condition. And
then we'll find out from GM Scott where
Tain was during all that time and how
did he gain access to this sealed room.
We find him tied up because the ratings
tied him up.
That's that's not it's not a bad bad
possibility. Uh and then as a quick
reminder for everybody as we prepare for
this um number one uh all of you well no
okay except for GM Scott but um all of
you have uh checks persona and fate
points or I should say checks fate and
persona points. So, uh, just as a quick
reminder, uh, you can spend those fate
points to press your luck after a die
roll, which lets you explode the sixes.
You can also use your fate points when
you help someone to help with synergy,
which lets you mark a pass or a fail
depending on whether the person you
helped pass or fail on your skill that
you helped with. And you can also use
them with your wises to roll a failed
die roll if it applies to your wise.
Persona, much more powerful. Persona
could be just added. You can spend a
point to add straight up a d a d6 to any
die roll regardless of anything else.
You can also spend it if uh your wise
applies to roll all
failures, which is a huge bonus. Uh and
then persona can also let you tap into
your nature. And if you tap into your
nature, you get to add your nature uh
dice to whatever role you're making.
Now, if this is inside of your nature,
uh you're mostly protected. But if it's
outside of your nature, if you uh you
you end up um you may end up lowering
your nature as a result of
that. Uh but it's a good way to
potentially add three or four or five
dice to a die roll that is uh you know,
very very uh much
needed. All right. Well, who wants to
start us off with the prologue?
That's up to you guys. I fig I thought I
was going to get rid of sick with the
prologue, so whatever works for you
guys.
Uh I I still think it's meaningful.
You've got only two checks. Um there's
not assured reality that I am able even
to clear the anger. So um I think you go
for it. Okie dokie. All right, Matt,
break it down. All right. I might um
butcher some of these names, but just
smile, point, and laugh at me. All
right.
Um, our tale begins in the four or four
orbing cobweb
spider camp that we
made. Play stick with a scent of age and
decay. We the brave adventurers, brave
being a loosely term, uh gathered the
eerie cobwebs to that clang cling to the
walls, hoping that they serve as a life
lifeline or an
uncertain rope. Sad sadak Saddak the
resourceful halfling thought he could
scale the webs to find a way out. But
alas, his plan failed. Yet in the
darkest of moments, fortune smiled upon
us as we stumbled upon the
altered altered path and passage to an
unknown realm
beneath. I'm sorry, above. I I'm
finishing up a um sinus inspection, so
just Yeah, work with me. Uh, the
hallways that awaited us were vast and
endless. Scratching further, stretching
further than we could see, lined with
countless doors among the dust and
shadows, we found something curious. A
piece of lint, an odd detail in an
amazing world. Carnolus carnalis or
elven
guide was determined to find a route
back to the top. But every step, the
path only grew more twisted and
perplexing. As we pressed forward, we
entered a long, crumbling hallway. Each
step echoed in the silence. There at the
end of the quarter, we met with an
all-inspiring sight. A massive
archway crowded with a figure of a stone
dragon. From its nostrils, be blue mist
poured forth. a warning of danger that
lay
beyond. The room beyond the archway was
filled with several other doors, each
one more mysterious than the last. But
fate, as it often does, had other plans.
Carnalis, ever
bold, lost his footing and fell into a
pit
trap. The darkness below hid some
chilling something chilling. An
abandoned child's body, lifeless in the
depths. It was a grim discovery, but
there was no time for mourning. As
Carnalis recovered the body, the party
the party sought out the source of the
blue mist, only to find Carnalis
stumbling into another trap. This time,
however, his quick
reflexes spared him the fall, just a
narrow escape from certain doom. Also,
we figured out that some other party
came and looted the body and just left
it there. Jerks.
The dragon archway loomed above us. Its
two
enormous its enormous stone doors st
stand
standing marked by a circular symbol and
a single mysterious handle. But it
wasn't just a door. It was a puzzle. We
uhended we ascended a staircase that we
f that was off to the side off to the
right, I guess. As we moved upward, we
noticed strange signs of traffic. Small
clawed footprints scattered along the
stone, leading both up and down,
childsized. They they suggested that
others had passed here before. Our
path ended at at the well, its depth h
its depth hidden in shadow, while
Titans served as a makeshift ladder
leading back up to the surface. Not
willing to leave any stone unturned, we
returned to the dragon
door. Carnalis, ever cautious now
because he kept falling into traps,
searched for more
traps. And there were and we and then he
found the keyhole nestled in the
dragon's mouth. Hesitant but determined,
we attempted to unlock the door only to
be met with a fierce spray of poison
blasting out of the dragon's nostrils. a
sharp reminder of the dangers that await
us.
But we did not falter. Sadok, Herber,
and Carnalis worked in unison, their
skills combining to pick the lock.
Another poisonous blast followed, but
our
previous but it paid off. We turned the
handle and opened the door. Beyond the
door lay a room bathed in an eerie blue
light. Ancient elven script etched in
the walls. Carn stepped forward followed
intent forward intent and deciphering
the writings writings. But before he
could even begin, we were ambushed. Six
rattlings thieves rattling thieves
materialized from the shadows, their
eyes gleaming with malice and intent.
They had come not to fight but to steal.
Their their swift movements and cunning
nature caught us off guard, but we were
a we were victorious. After the battle,
the ratlings ran ratlings running. We
managed to force the door shut, trapping
the the thieving rats
outside. They were persistent, but our
resolve was stronger. We camped in the
room, our minds whirling with the
mysteries that still surrounded us. The
blue light, the ancient script, the
creatures of this place, they were all
part of a greater puzzle. We had
survived that the day, but answers we
sought remained inclusive. What did the
elven script reveal? What danger still
lurked in the shadows of this forsaken
place? Only time will tell, but one
thing is certain, our journey is far
from over.
Sick. All right, good job. All right,
laughing. Go ahead. That's a high bar.
Yeah, that's a high bar. Yeah. Wow. You
guys thought I was gonna do that. Like I
say, imagine if Bob had done that. All
right. Well, uh well, Bert, you can go
ahead and clear your angry condition.
And um as a reminder, like me, I'm not
I'm not mad anymore. Uh as a reminder,
so Bob, who plays Carnalos, our elf
ranger, he is currently exhausted. You
can see that on his uh his little icon
there. And that means that Bob's ability
to use his instinct for free is hampered
because he is kind of exhausted and
tired. Meanwhile, Ryan playing sadak the
saddle by Lee the halfling is both angry
and sick. He kind of got [ __ ] on by
traps um a lot last uh last session. Uh
Tay the Unresting coming back to us. Uh
we'll get to Jim Scott here in a minute.
Uh is conditionless. Booth B playing
Amos sheep's guard the human theurge.
It's like a it's like a cleric who
doesn't like worship gods. He just
steals their power directly. Um it has
no conditions. And then uh after curing
their anger, Berber is both exhausted
and sickened. Uh so sharing a mix of
what Ryan and Bob has as well. So those
two have been taking the brunts.
Uh James
Scott, Tain was missing. Where has Tane
been? Well, I hope you don't uh expect
me to have to follow that performance.
Nope. Sorry, dude.
Um, so Tain the Untrusting,
um, frustrated with having failed his
cgraphy role, his first real cgraphy
role. Um, you know, doing this out in
the wilds near the tower has always been
easy, but uh after the harrowing chase
of the skeletons and uh
uh just everything going on, having to
deal with all these people, um he he
really did
not remember all of the things that he
had seen that day. And he was having a
hard time making a map. We made camp,
ate food, we felt much better. Everyone
started to rest for the night, but not
Tame. He awoke in the middle of the
night frustrated. Still could not get it
that the failure of his map out of the
mind. So, he kind of went off on his own
and went
back into the areas between the skeleton
area and the and the webbed area to try
and remember some of the things that he
had seen.
But as much as he doesn't trust people,
uh he also really didn't feel
comfortable down there. Uh in fact, it
didn't take very long for him to become
terrified of being alone in a dungeon in
an area where he was only mostly com uh
uh familiar with. So he was hearing
noises and he holed up in a little
corner not too far away from the party
because, you know, he didn't make it
very far before he became afraid. and he
probably stayed there for a while
drinking wine to keep from getting
hungry and thirsty. Um, and he
eventually just followed the party
um as they as they traveled. He he
didn't want to uh to come back without a
a good map. So, he followed the party um
witnessing what they had done, but when
they got in trouble, he kind of backed
off cuz he didn't like that blue the
blue smoke. Um, but having seen them go
into that room, um, he realized that
maybe he should go in there, too. So, he
is going to use his, uh, thieves tools
and his, uh, criminal skill to try and
Well, actually, I'm I'm narrating, so I
I would have succeeded. This might have
been my success check maybe that I get
from this if I do a good job. Um, and he
ends up opening the door. Unfortunately,
to rejoin the party. Unfortunately, as
the party is setting down to do camp,
you guys hear the sound of someone
messing with the door on the other side.
The door sounds like it has been
unlocked, but of course, it is heavily
spiked from your side. A brief
conversation emerges. You guys, there's
discussion of whether or not you should
kill them or not. But then, Tain, you
hear a voice come out softly from the
thick stone door.
It's me. It's me, Tane. The rats are
gone. Totally. Totally fine. Um, you're
getting ratophobia. Why did they come
in? Um, however, uh, as, uh, as you
reopen the door, you find a a
belleaguered and bewildered
Tain, still looking untrusting. Um, who
looks like [ __ ] after spending the last,
you know, I don't know, 24 hours alone
in the dark of the dungeon, having
getting separated from you guys. Um, he
seems uh, very pleased to see you and
rejoins the party. All right, Dane.
Well, you can go ahead and mark a pass
or a fail on any skill.
Excellent.
All right. Thought it was my thieving
brother. Yes. Um, additionally, I'm
going to switch over to the inventory
view here. So, real quick, looking at
the the party's inventory. You guys, I
think, are down to your final two
torches. Uh, Carnalos has two torches.
Um, Saddak has one burning, but that's
it. Uh, none on Tane, none on Amos, and
none. Uh, Berber has four. Berber has
four candles. So remember, candles only
light one square. Um, this room that
you're in has dim illumination naturally
because of the glowing blue light. Uh,
but additionally, uh, just as you know,
for people who may not have remembered
from last time or even from our own
party members, uh, Carnalos lost his
quiver, uh, in the rattling skirmish.
Um, so he has a bow, just no arrows and
no quiver. Um, you guys still have a
shitload of wine. Um, so there's that.
And then, um, uh, other than that, you
have a small handful of silver and a few
miscellaneous odds and ends. Herbert's
down a helmet. Um, and, uh, I'm down a
helmet. I'm down um, thieves tools and
Oh, and a crossbow. Yeah. Yeah, I got I
got messed up last time. Um, and of
course here with you in this blue room,
uh, glowing room is the, uh, dead body
of
Kurt, the, uh, the peasant boy, which
you guys took about. So,
um, the, uh, the glowing blue light here
lines the stone tiles covering the
chamber. The chamber is empty, save for
several large pillars that flank it. But
on the other side, it narrows down into
a 10- foot wide opening to the east,
beyond which is darkness. Bold runes in
an ancient elven script are inscribed
around and above the opening. Speak,
friend, and enter.
Um, this, having resealed the door, is
where you guys were going to camp, I
believe. Yes, sir.
So, we're going to start off with a bang
by going into camp. Yeah. Now, we
already rolled all our camp events and
all of our camp stuff last time, so
we're good there. No disruptions or
anything like that. So, that means that
you guys can now go into camp mode. So,
amongst other things, this means that
this will uh this will reset the uh
grind and it means that you guys are now
in camp.
Does that also
um belief creed goal that kind of stuff?
Oh, you know what, Herbert Bert, thank
you so much. Thank you. Um yeah, so now
that we've done the prologue and we've
set the stage where you guys are at,
you're in this room, you know what's
going on, blah blah blah. Now you guys
have the opportunity to write your
session goals and share them with the
party. Um and if you want to change your
belief or your instinct, uh now would be
the
time. And usually if you're going to
change your belief and your instinct uh
again you can change it at the end of
the session or the beginning of the
session you can't change it in the
middle. Um and uh if you do you know
explain to us why and then you know in
terms of goal you can pick whatever goal
you want of course remember uh but it
has to be smart right specific
measurable attainable actionable
reasonable timely. So mine last time was
um to find a way out of the dungeon. We
did find a way out. Correct. We just
haven't actually gone out. Right. Um, so
I assume if if no one else is going to
take it and we'll obviously discuss here
very quickly, but I would like to get
out of the dungeon, right? That's not
much. Yeah. So that's not much of a good
goal because you guys know that the
dungeon entrance is like right there.
You could have literally left last time.
You just chose not to. Yeah. Which is
part of what I was I was thinking. I was
like, well, Saddak is angry. He sees our
rations are slow low. He also sees
torches are limited, but he the food is
low. Now, Bob, a goal might be get the t
get the party back to town. Oh, well,
yeah, that's I guess that's the ultimate
goal, right? Yeah. To get out of the
dungeon
is to meaning to get back to where we
can Well, like we don't got a lot of
money, but I want to buy some torches.
The problem is I don't know that you can
afford torches. I know. We don't even
have enough gold or silver to do
anything with. Yeah. Yeah. We don't I
don't think we'll be enough money to
freaking buy dinner, let alone freaking
to. Hell, I don't even have a weapon
anymore. Technically a rattling dagger.
Oh, speaking of Saddak, I throw you my
um my um uh freaking garlic because I
want to put the dagger on my around my
neck and you last time.
Yeah, I was going to say it's convince
the party to leave.
That's a good goal cuz the conversation
at camp does not seem very focused on
leaving and so I will go. Isn't that you
can you can have a you can use your
check for a conflict convince us to
leave, right? Yes, that's correct. He
can he can use a check and initiate a
conflict with the party and convince
them to
leave. And if he succeeds, then you are
honor bound to do that. And then if but
if you but if he fails, if you guys win,
then he is he has been convinced that we
need to stay. You know, we've come this
far. What are we going to do? Let the
other crew steal our treasure as they've
been stealing our treasure for the last
several days.
Yeah. My belief I believe that I should
not leave the do the the dungeon
empty-handed. Right. Well, that's your
belief. Yeah. Like I'm I'm talking about
though you can change that if you want
to, but uh I'm good with that. You do
need to set you do need to set a goal.
So the goal is I will find something
valuable. So I'm not leaving if I find
something valuable. Okay. And then I'd
like to um change my instinct to um
because of all the the three the the
traps that we ran
into. I want to
um my instinct be search for traps when
it's when it's how do I put it? I don't
want to say it sort of sounds stupid.
Search for traps when it seems like
there'll be a trap around. I don't
really know how to like elegantly say
that right now. My head's a little
freaking cloudy. Yeah, that's okay. I
mean, the key with an instinct, it does
have to be some somewhat specific. So,
you should pick something like um you
know, you know, an instinct might be
like search for traps in a doorway or
search for traps in intersection. Just
always be searching for traps. Not
really a good instinct. You want to like
you want to describe what are the
conditions that have to exist that would
make your character and when it looks
like a trap, not really very specific.
So, it should be something, you know,
concrete, something that we can point
to. Like when I had the will always
scavenge when it's um safe for me to for
for to for me to that was sort of like
didn't work because I found lint right
so well you just roll that think about
changing huh yeah no I mean I'm saying
think about changing that to like
scavenge when you might when it would be
more um be a higher option of finding
something but you won't know that right
but that the problem is you won't know
that so that's why it's got to be
something that's very like clearly
understood understandable in the fiction
that you can like
for example you might like a good
examp when whenever we encounter
creatures scavenge scavenge their lair
right like that's an example of like
where you have a very specific condition
and then the instinct triggers
yeah searching for traps in the
direction we're going doesn't really
makes that doesn't really Who is the
party leader?
I think was I I was it last time, wasn't
I? I think it's GM Scott.
Jim Scott was our default. I was the
leader before I ran off and someone
else. Yeah, I just don't know if I trust
you being the leader. So Bob Bob is
Okay, so Bob Bob became the leader. Bob
stays the leader because it was bequeafd
unto him. Um All right. So Bob, you're
our leader. So, everybody coordinate
your goals. Um, decide if you want to
update your instincts and beliefs and uh
then we we can go ahead and get started.
So, I'm going with to get get the party
back to town.
Okay. My goal is going to be to deliver
Kurt the or the body of Kurt the
Shepherd boy to his shepherd home.
Okay, that's good. Both of those are
very good. Specific.
my my previous goal of recovering the
dragon bone dagger seems less
accomplishable the more I know about
this dungeon. Um and at this point I
almost want to learn more about the
ratlings. Now I'm hoping that we can get
to town and get back. Um that's a tough
order. Town can take a time. Okay. All
right. So maybe something in town. We
don't have much to do. Well, you don't
have the money for town. Unfortunately,
I you're going to have a rough go in
town right now because you guys are
broke as [ __ ] Yeah. Yeah. If we don't
find something valuable, we don't we're
not going to It's going to You're have a
really hard I mean, you guys have I
think like two dice of treasure. We have
whatever these silver thing. We have
three of these silver things. Yeah. So,
you have three plus You have three dice
of treasure that then I have one
resource,
right? So, so the rest of you can't even
make resource checks. The only person
who's even allowed to make a resource
check is Berber. for you guys to make a
resource check, you have to spend the
coin. And once you spend it, it's gone.
So, uh yeah, you guys are in a rough
spot. Yeah, I we really just need to uh
not not we need to get lucky in like one
try and then get back down right now.
And remember, you did go through this
locked door uh which you was out, you
know, which you're not you're not
supposed to go through. Um if we can get
a mapping check done in this room, we
can pass through the door without a
challenge anymore. Right. Well, if if we
just made camp, I have the instinct to
We are going to make camp, but Matt
pointed out correctly that you guys need
to set goals. So, I
now can I make a goal of successfully
make a map at camp? No,
it hasn't happened yet. Mhm. Can a goal
be I want to get uh our our group out of
here.
Uh
no, cuz I mean it can hurt. Like that's
basically aligned with Bob's goal. And
you guys can do that, but if you do
that, if you guys get yourself back to
town, only one of you can get the
persona point. The other one will get a
fate point. Well, I want to impress my
group with my bravery. All
right. And uh my belief is I want to
keep our spirits
high. I want to change that, but I don't
know. I I need I need I wish I spent a
little bit more time. I'll I'll I want
it to be basically I want
to make sure I advocate for our
safety despite our own ambition. Um, so
a belief that Yeah. So, um, you know, I
I get what you're saying. Um,
um,
uh, you know, something
uh, I'm trying to
think. Let's try like
remember it's a belief like so it's like
um, you know, so you might say our lives
are more valuable than gold.
Yeah. Okay. Or something like that, you
know. Originally it was I will keep our
spirits high. Yeah. Or uh good things
will happen to us, but I still think
it's unmoral, but it's more so like
Well, I mean, like if you're talking
about safety, like I I asked Chief like
uh safety before silver. Um you know, I
like as long as we're going for gold or
something else other than silver, we're
good, right? No.
Silver safety then is the Yeah, right.
All right. I'm going to try that one
out. So remember, the key to fulfilling
a belief is that if you make discrete
concrete actions, yeah, that are in line
with that belief, then that's how you
earn that belief reward. Right. So if
basically the the we're put in a
position where there's gold or treasure
but clear chance of danger. Yes. To and
you and you advocate for your belief and
you can dissuade or do something to that
effect. Uh then yes. All right. Right.
Scott, did you end up on a goal?
No. Um, I'm still trying to think about
one and and yeah, I was thinking about
maybe getting uh something useful from
my alchemist friend in town, but I have
nothing to offer them. So, I We don't
know that. Lots of stuff you can figure
out between now and then. That's true.
Would it be to learn more about like the
nate the the we're in this really spooky
room that's filled with a zero light?
Well, and that and that was a question I
had for the description of this room,
right? The detailed description. Is
there is this a featureless room or is
there I heard you say something about uh
uh uh balac, right? Speak friend and
enter. But um is there anything else in
this room that I could possibly
uh remember with my scholar and learn
more about and and could that be a goal
to figure out what the purpose of this
room is? Is that something that's even
reasonable?
[Music]
Um, yeah, I guess. I mean, yeah. I mean,
I mean, I'll put this way. You're in
this room. So, I mean, a goal might be
like, um, you know, because obviously
this room was locked, right? So, um I I
would say maybe a more appropriate goal
would be to like, you know, um explore
this, you know, this what just explore
this locked vault or whatever it is, you
know, like and figure out why this why
was this behind this dragon door guarded
by this poison gas trap, blah blah blah
blah blah. Yeah, I'm sort of wondering
about that cuz like I thought those
little feet were like cobalts, but they
are ratlings. So, I figured cobalts,
dragon, yada yada. Now we're deal with
ratlings through a dragon
door. What's around all Well, remember
the ratlings came up from behind you.
Mhm. Well, I mean like in the in the in
the same area kind is what I'm saying. I
would figure that if it was a dragon
door, the cobalts would be more
stationed here than ratlings. Yeah,
unless they came in after
maybe.
All right. But I don't really know what
cobalts are anyway, so just whatever.
Right.
Um, so all right. So for the goal then
explore this dragon vault. Um, but I'm
also changing my belief. Okay. Uh, no
longer do I feel that people not worth
my trust. Um, because I think they are
at this point. Uh, I'm going to change
my belief to say I must help my comrades
uh uh be more thoughtful, right?
Consider every angle before they jump
into a pit trap perhaps. Right? But you
know as a belief you should really it it
it should come off as something that
like you believe right like what you
just described there was more of a goal.
Okay. you know, which is funny because
they copied it right from the one of the
beliefs. But yeah, um but yeah, but in
this instance, you know, it's so as a
belief, I believe,
uh the elf or my party uh does not or
needs to consider every angle needs to
think before they act. Yeah. Or they
need to think more. Yeah. Or, you know,
look before they leap or whatever. Yeah.
Needs to plan more. All right. Before
they act, that's fine. Yeah, that's
that's what you believe. Which goes hand
inhand with one of my traits of
thoughtful. Yeah.
Okay, then. So, we're all good. Mhm. All
right. Cool. All right. Camp phase
initiated. All right. Uh, so you guys
get a fire going to provide some warmth
and light. Um, camp instincts that you
may have whenever I camp. Blah blah blah
blah. I don't know who's got those
still. Wish we had some. Wish we had a
cook. Uh well the I believe I none of us
are hungry so I I believe I already made
that check because I didn't have the
garlic either. Okay. So you made it
already done. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Because
I say by the way even if everyone was I
mean I I think you're right. Everyone
was hungry and then you did it. Um even
if everybody wasn't hungry, you would
still have to do that. Yeah. Yeah. Um we
did the instincts. We just didn't do the
um and then we just cut it off there.
Yeah. So T because Tane is here now. T
you get your instinct.
Sweet.
All right, I will not here. I give you I
give you the notes of my map though. All
the notes I was doing.
Unfortunately, that makes the check a
lot higher. Does it? Yeah. Because I'm
using someone else's notes. Yep. If the
information is transmitted by notes,
it's uh OB 2 base. If it's if it's areas
that you've personally surveyed, it's OB
one based. All right. So, God, how do I
do this again?
What you trying to do? Well, I'm trying
to I I'm trying to figure out how to get
the uh the die roll window to open.
Okay. I can't remember how to do that.
That's all right. It's been a while. I'm
in edit mode. Never mind. Yes, that's
step one. Yep. There we go. Okay. So, I
have my cgrapher roll open. Um it is
going to be an it's a versus, right? And
you have to give me the OB at some
point. It is not a versus. Oh, it's
independent. It is an independent versus
is when you're going up like against
somebody. Oh, that's right.
Okay. Uh, my ctographer is three. Um, so
I don't have a trait to use with this
unless I want to use thoughtful and take
my time. So, the thing is is what are
you cgraphizing?
Everything. Okay. That's going to be a
higher OB, right? Correct. Yeah. Yeah.
So, it's going to be OB 2 for a moderate
sized area. And it's OB one if you're
just doing a couple of rooms, but if
you're doing everything you've been
through, that's two. And then you This
is the information you these are the
places you have been. Yes. So, that's
plus one. So, the total OB is three.
Okay. So, I have three dice. Yes. Um,
and can because it's an instinct, can I
use a a trait? Yep. Okay. And I have my
people can help you but only if they
have an instinct which is similar or
they have a nature that may help you.
Okay. Does anyone have a nature that may
help me? I have a nature called
remembering but I don't think it's this
I didn't know if it like is me
remembering versus like helping. No no I
think it's your character remembering
which is probably going to be that
sounds reasonable to me. I I would try
to, you know, remember and help you when
you start to talk about the room. It's
like, oh yeah, yeah, I know the skeleton
with the the shiny necklace. That was
the first thing we did. Yeah. Um, can I
use delving to help? Absolutely. So,
when while he's like doing, I'm like,
"Oh, wait, wait, don't forget like
that's that doesn't
um if you put that there, the structure
of the the building might not work as
well." So, it's got to go over here. All
right. Yeah, the the uh the the delving
expertise of the dwarf, the ancient
memory of the elf. Those can both help
you for two dice there, GM Scott. So,
you can add those on helping dice. All
right. Done that. Good. Great. Uh do you
have any ink, paper, parchment, cloth,
or charcoal?
Uh probably not because they weren't
available at the beginning of the game.
That's correct. And no one has scavenged
them or created them or otherwise bought
them. So, you have no supplies. We have
some lint. You have no gear. That
unfortunately can't help. But uh some
blood right in blood. I I wait I think
uh collected charcoal. Yes, I have
charcoal. Remember I I have collected
charcoal in my notes, but I don't know
why. I took charcoal from the fire and
we were using it to mark. So I have
charcoal. Well, there you go. Well, now
you won't have charcoal, but GM Scott
can use that as supplies.
Fantastic.
And then I'll grab some more charcoal
after this fire goes out.
Okay. So, that
is
five. Five dice. Why is it only five
dice? Well, because you have three. I
didn't click I didn't click off of it
yet. Yeah. Right. So, I have six dice
versus OB three. Yep. Let's see it. All
right. it.
I almost used the trade against myself.
I'm glad I didn't.
You don't believe yourself.
Well, I was going to go too fast, right?
Thoughtful thoughtful against myself.
Um, all right. So, uh, well, you have
succeeded and Tain is able to create a
map. So, your map contains, uh, about
these things. Yeah, I've heard about
these things, these legendary things.
Um, so Tain's map includes everywhere
where he has been. Um, so that means it
includes the uh ancient tomb, the web
filled passages, uh, the camp where you
guys originally stated, the empty halls,
the hall of Azer mists, the dark earth
and hole back up to the circle of
stones, and the reoquary where you
currently are. Does it include town?
Nope.
Okay, that is that is a huge win for the
group right there. Yeah. Yeah, that is
awesome. I think that's valuable. Yes.
Now, remember the way that it works is a
couple things. Number one, Tain has the
map. This is now an object. It does not
take a spot in your inventory, Tane. But
you could it could get lost or destroyed
in a twist. Um like if you lose your
backpack or something like that, you can
lose the map. So, it is a physical
object. It just doesn't take a slot in
your um uh inventory like your pots and
pans and stuff. As long you better not
go on vacation again. Yeah, as long as
you have light to read by and you are
currently in a location which is on your
map, uh then you can essentially fast
travel to any location that is on your
map as long as the situ situation or
circumstances hasn't concerned. For
example, if the earthn shaft collapsed,
uh then you couldn't fast travel back up
to the circle of stones because
physically it is impossible. Um if
something else, but right now at where
you're at right now, you could fast
travel back to the ancient tomb with the
skeletons. You could fast travel back
from where you're in now right now
through the empty halls to the web
filled passages back to the camp that
you made when you guys camped there
overnight. So you can travel to any of
those locations on your
map. Additionally, your instinct helped
the party. So that that is it's also a
past role, GM Scott, so you can mark
that. Um, and can we make copies of that
map? You can with a cgrapher check.
They think of everything
just in case. Yes, you can totally do
that. Um, so all right. Well, now you're
in camp and you guys have uh two checks
from Remember, you can split them up as
much as you want or can. Um, the only
difference is that you guys uh can't
take two in a row of one the same person
and you can split them up however you
want. So essentially, you have five
checks as a group, but no one can compel
someone to give up their checks if they
don't want to. If they want to use their
checks for something, they can, but uh
you have five as a group. What's how is
exhausted just what's the role? So I
think it's actually on your character
sheet. Yes. Health three. Health OB3.
Okay. Um I would like to try that first
if no one has a issue. So my
understanding recovery roles they can
never like twist you twist. So we should
we should do the recovery roles first.
Okay. I'm I'm exhausted and sick. I have
two checks. How many checks do we have?
Uh, we're I'm I have two, but I I
hypothetically I I assume you can't make
the same check twice, right, Derek? Now,
I know not in a row, but can you do it
after like someone else? I don't know
what you just asked. Um, okay. I'm going
to try to recover my exhausted. Okay,
great. Spend a check. Spend a check.
Someone else goes and then am I allowed
to go again? Yeah, but you but you can't
try to recover from your exhausted. You
can only do that once per camp. That's
what I was asking. So, I have one that
I'm using for exhaust and I have one
that anyone can use for a condition or
whatever check they want to do. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
I I mean, I think you and or Uber should
go uh try first.
All right. Now, can anybody help with
these, Derek? Nope. Okay. Here we go.
still
exhausted costs a check. All right. Um,
Caranolas tries to take some rest and
recovery, but he does not find it in
these ancient halls. The powerful
spirits of elven death still haunt his
memory, and he is unable to recover from
the weariness that is sipped seeped deep
into his bones. He may never not be
exhausted again.
Bob, mark a failure on your health. You
have to have like eight failure. You
have to be maxed on failures. You have
No, I'm close. I got two out of two out
of three there. I feel it's my scout
that I'm real bad in. Okay.
Go.
Nope. Dang.
You find no respit in this horrible
deadly place. That's cuz they all open
the door for constantly bickering
though.
Not bickering.
wrong. That's cloak. Had they had
cloaks, would they that would have
helped them a little bit? Correct.
Cloaks count as gear for recovery from
health uh from
exhausted. But alas, no cloaks, armor,
and backpack.
And merry making only helps angry. Um
angry, angry, afraid, you know, the
emotional states of things. Yeah. Yeah.
Um, just one quick question. I get it
says health four, but on my sheet it
says five. Why is that? Great question.
It's because you're sick and sick is
minus one die, but it does not affect
recovery dice. So, you should have
rolled an extra die. However, it
wouldn't have mattered, but I just
wanted to make sure what was going on.
Yeah, that's why because when you're
sick, you get minus one dice to all
skill rolls, all nature rolls, all will
rolls, all health rolls, but it does not
affect your recovery. You also cannot
practice, you cannot learn, and you
cannot advance when you're sick. If he
would have rolled a six, could he
exploded it? Uh, if he had a fate point,
he does. So, yeah, he could have. I'm
just saying. All right. All right. That
one extra dice. I'll roll an extra D6
forever. Nice catch, Bob. It is not a
five. So, it it was not a It was not a
six. So, he got I didn't roll that. You
did. That's not fair. He got two He got
two sixes. Bob, that's important. He got
two sixes, I should say.
Um, Aamos, you have a check, right? Yes.
So, you're you're trying and mine will
cause a twist if I fail. Okay.
Potentially. So, you you and you're
you're good because you I was thinking
you're trying to do something with your
her or your your Yes. I must purify
myself.
Well, if you don't mind. And you hear uh
uh the popping of a cork
as Saddak sits back with his belly full
on his garlicky soup and drinks from his
water skin. So I want to try and make
a will roll. Yep. Angry is I think a
will
ob. Yep.
If you consume a dose of wine, you get a
plus one die for this. It counts as
supplies.
Um, additional guy supplies. Okay. All
right. Well, you have like you should
have like six dice for this sat. Oh, but
wait before you roll. Um, make sure you
uncheck cuz you're going to get that
minus one die for your six. You
shouldn't have that. It does not apply
to recovery checks. So, so how do I I
don't know. You can just add an extra
die or something. I don't know. All
right. Uh, I'll do uh a second one.
There you go. As long as you're rolling
six dice. 60. Yeah. Okay.
Hey. All right. Well, Saddak gets drunk
as [ __ ] and that helps him recover from
being angry, but you're still sick and
so it's really it's like hair of the
dog. You're just like, I'm just going to
get drunk
instead. All right. Well, uh, that's
another check gone. So, you guys have
three checks left. Mhm.
And should we have Ber try his other
one? My screen just went. Uh Berber try
his other one. Back to you, Ryan. Can't
do it. Why? Well, cuz he failed his
exhaust. Be unexhausted first. Oh, undo
the exhaust. You can't get to the other
one first. Yes, you can. And you have to
then it has to be emos. Okay. Yeah, it
goes in recovery order.
So they you can only try and recover
once per camp. uh condition. No, like
you could recover uh afraid and then
recover angry and then recover
exhausted. Locked out because exhaust
has before. So I have to I had to get
rid of exhausted to even attempt to do
the next one,
right? And since and since I failed
since Matt failed, we c we couldn't even
attempt a second one because we can't
attempt the same one.
You can attempt something else if
there's anything else you have that
won't c that Yeah, but won't potentially
result in twist. I don't know what that
would Yeah, I don't know what anything I
need to do in camp other than was to
keep us going. The exception is um uh
you do you do have to recover from dead
uh before you recover from the other
conditions. So there is that. So at this
point we're probably in checks that
would require or could result in twists.
So well I mean you uh well you've
recovered from your anger, right? Yeah.
So I'll check that. Yep. And then Bob
made his check failed. Ber made his
check failed. So, they're done there.
Um, can't go back to forth. It can't go
back to back, so it has to go to Amos.
Why? I mean, you just didn't make a
check. You can make a check. I can make
a check for what, though? I mean, that's
what I'm saying. I mean, camp. Camp is
supposed to be used to prepare you for
the adventuring phase, not just recover
from conditions. Yeah. If you tell me
there's there might be a quiver laying
around, I'm going to go look for one,
that would be scavenge. That would be
scavenge.
That that is the only thing I need that
more than a lot of things right now.
Yeah. Um I mean I could Yeah, I I'll go
scavenge. Sure. I'll scavenge. I'm gonna
go out on my own. Um I need nobody else.
Give me your torch. Sadak.
I think it's actually unlit. I think it
was Yeah, this area I have my own torch.
This area is already lit. Bob, it's
dimly lit though. Would I be able to
still scavenge? Okay. Or is it going to
give me a penalty? It'll give you a
penalty. No. Did I light my torch? Ah.
These torches are so valuable. I'm going
to take the penalty. Just going to go
look. Okay. Here's a candle. Oh, yeah.
Let me get that candle. Oh, the candle's
good. All right. The candle's good.
Yeah. All right. I'll take one candle.
Put the candle back. Oh, I can't take
light one candle. There you go. All
right. Candle's up. All right, Bob.
You're going to need my bow because I'll
put my bow in my backpack because I
don't actually need it, right? Um, leave
it here. Camp. All right, Bob. So, you
are going to um uh go ahead and uh
look around for
some sort of arrows or some sort of
thing that you could find. Yeah, right
now I only have base of this knife and I
feel a little unprepared. Uh, obviously
I would love Yep. You know, high-end
would be quiver and bows. Yep.
Obviously, I'll take about anything at
this point that will help protect me.
All right. All right. All right. So, um
I won't call this as a weapon. So, uh
it's a it's a tool or gear. So, it's
two. You're in a dungeon. Three. And
it's a common item. So, the ob is three,
Bob. OB is three. Yep. Okay. Now, I
would like to
um use my trait laner here. Yes. Cuz I'm
just going off on my own. I don't need
anybody else's help to do this. I can
find my own dang arrows. Great. setting
it up for a wonderful twist. Thank you.
Yes, I can do this. It It is an elven
tomb. Does that
uh That'd be nature if it was Well, to
be fair, I'm assuming Bob is un undoing
the door and going out and looking
around.
Make sure you think about what you're
doing because there's nothing to be
found in here. I mean, this is just
chamber. That's what I'm doing. All
right. I already found the traps. I know
that I'm not going to fall into those
things. Correct. Clearly another trap.
those traps. Yes. So, it should be 3
three. I guess I'm that's what I'm
getting at. Exhausted. You No, exhausted
shouldn't affect anything. Uh Oh, no.
It's cuz I'm um because I have like
nothing in scavenger. It's uh right. So,
it's beginner's luck. It's beginner's
luck. So, now you have an interesting
choice to make here, Bob. Instead of
using beginner's luck, you could choose
to use your nature. Yeah.
This would be going against your nature.
Um so, it's it's not within your nature.
It's outside of your nature. Okay. Um
and so change the nature within to
nature without or outside or whatever
it's called. Mhm. Um now keep in mind
now it will this will not affect your
scavenger
uh pass or fail. This will affect this
will go against your nature. Should you
fail this check, your nature will become
taxed. Okay. Okay. All right. So your
nature's five,
right? Yes. And you are
um oh uh uncheck this. Sorry. Yeah, I
don't know why. That's I was asking why
it's it's going down, but
um it was because I'm exhausted, but No,
exhausted doesn't affect anything. I
guess. H I thought it would override the
nature. Huh.
Interesting. I guess we just have to do
it as a
um I guess we just have to do it as a uh
nature roll, Bob.
Oh. Oh, click on nature. Yeah, that's
what that's what it is. You're right.
Yeah. Um Okay. So, there you go. There
we go. Okay. Okay. Well, then yeah.
Well, then I don't know if I want to use
my loner.
So then that's six dice versus ob three.
Yeah, I I guess I'm going to go with it.
All right. I'm doing this on my own. All
right. Here we go.
Crushed it. All right. So Bob, you go
out into the dungeon and the group is
vacant thing and you're got your thing
looking around and then you spy an arrow
and then another arrow. Ooh. And then
it's your quiver that the ratings said,
"This thing's [ __ ] worthless." And
they threw it
away. They said, "I thought they said,
"This isn't go." You're like, "Wait, is
this my quiver?" And you're like You're
like, "Yes, it is. It is. It's totally
yours. It's totally your quiver." Um,
all right, Bob. Back on tighter, Bob.
The qu the quiver is The quiver is back.
Woohoo. Nice job. Um, totally worth it.
So, uh, there you go. You found your own
What I found
I think you had it on the belt, right,
Bob? Um, yeah. Yeah. Okay. Mine was in a
weird spot, but yeah. Well, it just
takes up two slots on the belt, that's
all.
Feels good to be hole again. And then,
uh, Bob, there's your there's your
quiver slots back. Yay. I didn't
remember what I had in them. Well, you
arrow had arrows. Oh, that's why. Well,
Oh, stupid thing.
All right. Now, I assume I can walk back
and uh let uh this candle probably goes
out. Uh candle actually last for four
turns, so you're probably pretty good
there. All right. Well, then we'll just
hang out with the candle for everybody.
Go look at Jim Scott's map for if I'm
Well, I got one more check I can do
something with, right? All right, Bob,
you're back. You're back with arrows.
You got arrows in your quiver. You got
quiver on your belt and into your
quiver. All right. Yep. You're good. All
right. So, that's another check going.
Now, Bob, that was a passed test on your
nature.
Wow. I'm never going to get this.
No. Yeah. Well, you keep passing. We're
You're going to go on the boat. I
mean, if it's that time, it's that time.
All right. So, we have what? Two checks
left in the party. Yep. All right.
Amos will begin.
using the light of the candle to pull
out a little packet of papers to find an
appropriate prayer to unbburden himself
of the glories of the fire gods that he
has been drawing into
himself to cleanse himself of his
burden. Got it. Er burden. Er burden.
Burden birdie. I think it's actually
pronounced it's I think it's pronounced
like weird but like weird or something
like that. Some weird Scandinavian word.
Sorry is starting to pray again. I take
a few steps back in case his head
explodes. All right, Amos. So this is a
theologian test. Theologian test with a
ob equal to your current burden. Right.
Which is one. All right.
Um, I am going
to spend a persona for the extra die.
Okay.
Uh, cuz Yep.
You sure you don't want to channel your
nature?
What
is channeling your nature would add?
however, whatever your nature dice is to
it, but your nature would become taxed
if you pass by one and if you fail by
the number that you failed by
um an attack nature means it means that
your nature is temporarily lowered to
the value of before the slash. So I
don't know but it's I don't know what
you're more dice. What's less dice?
Wait, moving forward. It would be less
you would
um I'd have to pull up your character
sheet because I don't know anything
about your character. Uh
all right, Amos, you have I'm just
plopping everything. So your nature is
five, right? Of five. So, if you use a
persona point, you could channel your
nature and you could add five dice to
this roll. However, when you channel
your nature outside of your nature
traits, which is boasting, demanding,
and running. Um, if you pass, it goes
down by one. So, it would go to four to
five. If you fail, it goes down like if
you failed by four, it would go down by
four. But it's only the first number. So
the your nature would temporarily
basically be one of five. That's I think
I'm I think I'm going to go for the just
the one die on this one. Okay.
Because I only need one success. Yeah.
Famous last words. All right.
All right. So you got three
dice and Yeah. All right. No trait.
You're not touched by the gods or
something.
Saving that. You saving that one
now. We can we can use we'll go go for
it. Touched by the gods. Okay. Just make
sure you mark it right there on the
sheet so that it's used up. All right.
You got four dice. You need one success.
This shouldn't be an issue.
[Laughter]
It almost was an
issue. And I was going to suggest using
your nature against yourself. Check. Now
you guys know why you all have
conditions all the time. Um you can't
you can't earn checks in camp. James
Scott. Ah, okay. Um, all right. Well,
Dennis, uh, Amos is able to guide his
mind to a place of safety and prayer.
And, um, even though you are a the urge,
you are able to wean yourself of the
immortal burden that has been placed on
you by stealing and tapping into the
power of the gods. And your, uh, urge is
your burden is reduced to zero. And for
the first, you stop bleeding from the
eyes. No, I stopped bleeding from the
eyes after I gave my uh, report because
I I I was at my burden over. Got it. But
uh if I had failed this role, I still
could have lowered my order at the GM's
choice, but I would have gotten a
condition. Condition, right? Yep. Or he
could have left my order there and given
us a twist. Twist. Correct.
All right. Well, Amos is now clear of
his burden. And that means that we have
one check left belonging to Ber the
dwarf.
You're on mute, Matt.
Sorry about that. I was thinking of
maybe trying to read this Elven writing
with like a lore master check using my
nature. Yeah, that totally works because
I but I also have Elven Wise, so I don't
know which one I which would work
better. Well, Elvin wise would let you
aid somebody when they made a check. If
you have Elvin, if you have Elvin Wise,
though, if you make the check, then you
could potentially spend a Persona point
or a fate point to roll failures in the
event that you fail. I'll I'll do that.
I'll walk up and I'll start looking at
this
um scripture that our elf while he goes
out looks for his arrows because, you
know, I don't want to embarrass him. I I
will uh totally jump in to help you
there. Yeah, you could totally Yep. That
seems totally reasonable. All right.
Yes, indeed. Um, this is a lore master
check. Now, Berber, you have two
choices. You can either make a lore
master check with beginner's luck. Mhm.
Or you can just use your nature.
Nature is four, wisdom three. So, I'll
probably use nature now. Okay. I was
going to say, if I made the lore master
check, would he even be able to help?
Nope. Okay. So, it's better this way
because at least we get the checkmate.
Um well, he's also doing it in camp
where it's free, right? As opposed to
costing a turn on the grind. Yeah. Yeah.
Um if I use my nature, it's a better
chance, but I won't boost my lure master
at all. That is correct. And potentially
your nature could be harmed if you fail
this check. You know something? Um in
for a penny, in for a pound, I'll do
lore master.
Okay. So, you're actually going to make
a beginner's luck lore master check.
Now, what's the the the synergy? Can I
do that? Uh cuz I I I wouldn't mind
getting a success or a failure with him.
Well, in that case, when you help him,
GM Scott, and you'll describe how you
help him. You'll also tell us that
you're spending a fate point for
synergy, and then whatever result he
gets, you get to mark that on that
skill. Okay. But I still get I still
give him an extra die or whatever. Uh,
correct. Yep. All right.
Alrighty. Um, and I lied.
This is not lore master scholar.
Scholar. Sorry. Sorry, Berber. Scholar.
Scholars for reading and writing.
Either way. Yeah. And I can still help
because I still have I have Lord Master
and Scholar. All right. Yep. Uh, it is
it is OB 2.
I'm gonna need that help because
Uh, I don't have as much. Well, the good
news is everybody can help you because
you're using beginner's luck. Um, so
everybody can help you with uh uh
because you're using will essentially.
Mhm.
So, how much help do I get? Well, you
specifically said that I you did this
while I was walking around. Yeah. So,
that is true. The fiction does not allow
you to do that. That is true.
So, three. Uh, GM Scott is helping you.
I don't know if Booth B and Ryan want to
help you. I I am cleansing myself of
order. No, no, you could. No, it's not
all simultaneously, but Bob was very
specific about using his loner trait, so
we'll say that. Um, so there you go. Um,
now, of course, remember, because this
is beginner's luck, the help dice are
haved. So,
um, unfortunately, uh, you're in a
situation where you have two dice versus
obing outlaw. So, uh, yeah, we'll see
what happens. Let's go. Let's go.
Hey,
love it. Love it. All right. It How many
How many people does it take? And like,
by the way, do you have like T is just
sitting there like biting his lip
like ah man, I know there's a reason. I
know there was a reason I was
untrusting. Um,
and I'm going like, how is the elf not
able to read his own people's writing? I
mean, come on. It's not that hard. It's
like second grade level. It's an ancient
text. All right. So, yes. So, um so
Berber, correct? You mark a beginner's
luck advancement on scholar. So, you're
that much closer to getting it. Uh GM
Scott, reduce the benefit point, which
is you decided to do and then make a uh
mark a um uh a pass success on scholar
on scholar. Um so, you're good there.
And then, uh you guys helped and that
was all that you guys get out of it.
Nothing with it. All right. You spend a
few moments tracing the ancient ruins,
remembering uh the folly of elves. wise
in their ancient tongue, you're able to
uh put it together. Um the runes,
however, are somewhat ancient and old,
and Tain is able to help with their
assessment. Um Saddok and Amos mostly do
the grunt work of cleaning out the
inscriptions, which have become somewhat
caked with dirt and mold and and and uh
debris over the many eons and ancient
passing of time. When all is said and
done, the runes are translated. It is an
ancient dialect of Elvish that has a
twinge of arcane energy to them and like
meaning meaning it's not magical but
it's like used by mages and it says let
the
respectful enter
here and that's it
above the the doorway that's that is yes
to the east that is that is that is be
above the doorway which is that leading
further into the the vault. Yes. Which
leads into the dark
corridor. And with that, you guys are
out of camp checks. So, it is time to
grind. All right. We are back
into adventuring phase. So, right now we
have what do we have for light? Is it
just a just a
candle? Just a candle. Is that it? Are
we intending to go deeper now? We got to
make that discussion. Oh, we got to make
that money.
Yeah, I think we we should be respectful
for what if we if we go further. Yeah, I
can't tell if that means like uh you
know Aladdin don't take the ruby type
thing or the penitent man drops to his
knees
or don't talk talk shitty carous. How
does how does one be respectful in elf
culture?
I'd remember this if I wanted to spend
some
time.
Unfortunately, I more or less just want
to either
get treasure or get back. I'm happy to
uh take one of the uh take a torch and
hold it for us. Oh, okay. Oh, if if we
intend on delving
further, Amos, now that he is not
shaking and unburned by the My gosh.
Unleash. Yes.
The amulet of the eye of the burning
lord. Are you actually casting a spell?
Yes. I shall cast supplication to the
burning lord to provide light. Ah, I
love this spell. Hell yeah. This is the
best spell. So good. Uh, supplication to
the burning lord. All right, the
invocation time. You have the relic, so
the invocation time is free. This does
not take a turn. Um, back up to two
burden. Yep. And uh, it is a OB three
ritualist check. Yes,
it's far better. Second, a persona point
to channel my nature. There you go.
demanding that the burning lord answer
my call for the gods have not shown
their light upon this expedition yet.
Yeah, you tell them to be respectful. Um
unfort I like I appreciate the roleplay
but it is still outside of your nature
to use demanding for uh although you
know what booby it's supplication.
Yeah, I'm going to allow you to demand.
You're pissed off. I'm I'm for it in
this instance. In this instance you're
you're salty enough that it's fine. Um
yeah, it's a supplication. And it
literally is a supplication. You are
making a request. Um, all right. So,
what you're going to do then, Boothby,
is you're going to go to your roll
screen and you're going to
uh I'm opening up your character sheet.
Um, yeah. So, you're going to go ahead
and make a uh ritualist check and then
you're going to channel nature. You got
it. It's within your nature, correct?
Uh, so you're going to be rolling eight
dice. Now the downside is that when you
channel nature even when it's inside of
your nature this is still going to if
you succeed it is going to still uh tax
your nature by one.
That's all right. We are taxing my
nature for I am going down in this
deeper hole. Uh actually let me double
check
that maybe I was
lying.
Um oh no if it's within your nature
there is no uh further cost for penalty
pass or fail. So in this instance,
there's no penalty because you you are
you are quite literally demanding that
the gods answer your your your that's
not a prayer, it's demand. All right,
bring it, buddy.
Some low rolls and scared me. All right,
make a make a pass test there. All
right. Uh, Dennis, what is uh what is
the uh what is what happens then as a
result of your demanding prayer to the
gods of burning lord? The burning lord
answers my call and my hand is wreathed
in torch light which I spread across my
shield as it uh glows with a light
of like a couple torches. I believe this
is as a lantern. Bright light for three,
dim light for three. Yeah. So it's like
a lantern. Wow. Fantastic.
So yeah, that's uh it's no joke. Uh
bring different to
and now that we have
light, my health is taxed by the
channeling of the un of the holy fire of
the burning lord and I have to make a
health test.
Now this doesn't take an additional turn
though, right? This is not the Yeah,
this is all part of the deal. Okay.
Okay. So a health test against OB two
two which is my burden. Yep. Uh
I guess no one can really help with
this. Now I will use my touched by the
gods. All right. As a as a as a four.
No, wait. Did I? No, you used it. I did.
Okay. I did use it already. Mhm. All
right. Uh, so two dice.
Um, two. Your health has to be higher
than
two. Well, you succeeded. Oh, health
four. Yeah, I got it. All right. Does it
Does it have to be? Mine was almost. All
right. So, the the uh divine energies
channel through. Um, he begins to once
again bleed from the nostrils and the
ears. He goes full like 11 on you guys.
um as the he kind of I mean because he's
literally stealing the energy from the
god. He's not a cleric. He's not a
priest. He's a theurge. He has the
ability to just directly channel from
the gods kind of whether they have a say
in it or not. Um he forces the power of
the flaming god into his shield.
However, it leaves him um a little bit
racked. However, normally this could
debilitate him or even kill him. But his
body weathers the storm of divine energy
and he's fine. So there you go. Mark
another past health. It it wouldn't have
killed I've already I've already maxed
out on past health. Oh, okay. It
wouldn't it wouldn't have killed me.
Right. No. Yeah. It would have given me
four conditions possibly. Correct.
Correct. Right. In this situation,
you're fine. Um All right. Well, now you
have Blazing Shield of Imos. Um so
everybody's in bright light because you
also have the candle still. Um so yeah.
Where do we have um Tane on our tracker?
Oh, we have five party members actually.
I forgot about Tane. So he's in dim
light. He is if someone's in dim light,
but yeah. Uh well, there's a candle
there, too. So, just give that person in
dim light the candle. Well, no, cuz uh I
got the candle. Booth beast creates
three squares of bright light and then
the candle creates one square of bright
light. But got it. You guys are fine.
Otherwise, I mean, you for the most
part, you it doesn't really matter if
you guys are Well, if someone has an
instinct to go ahead and check ahead of
the party, then they should probably
have that candle. Well, that's what I
have. But you're exhausted. That's just
to say that we would actually Well,
that's yeah, my instinct doesn't
trigger, but that's to say that we want
to go through this dark passageway.
Well, we have the light. I think we
should. That is that is a lot of
[ __ ] for a light spell.
We got to go. Our mage mage, which one
are you? Thermator.
Just consider me a scholar, too. Just
consider me someone that carries a book
around. I really don't have any useful
spells.
Map maker. The the map maker. That's
what you are. Our
our m our magic cer has almost killed
himself again, giving us light. We need
to go down this hallway and find
treasure. That's the whole point of
being here. Do that if we're going to go
back.
All right. Um, now I can do this uh
without having my instinct trigger,
right? I can just do it. Just scout. You
could scout normally. Yes. Yeah. I mean,
what are you It depends what you're
trying to do, but Well, I I think we're
trying to go through this dark
respectful opening.
Well, okay. That doesn't require a scout
role. Uh, no, but I want to look
ahead. That That's what I used to do
obviously when I had my instinct. I
would always scout. You scout? No, but
you always scout when you enter into a
new area. So, correct. That's what I'm
kind of right. So, if you say I'm
entering the doorway, then that would
trigger your instinct.
But in this case, it doesn't because I'm
exhausted. Correct. Well, no, it does.
It just takes a turn. Okay. Um, I would
like to go through this opening into
this new area. Let's uh think about this
for a second. Yeah.
Respectful.
Yeah. I saw a movie once.
What's a movie? Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's I
got to move. You guys keep discussing.
Also, remember too over and over again.
Uh, Laughing Outlaw also has an instinct
here too as well. Yeah, my instinct is
search for traps, but remember, but I
should also point out, it's up to you to
trigger your instinct. If the event
happens and you forgot your instinct,
the time has passed. So, like if you
guys get into the room and I don't know,
let's say a big log trap or something
smashing everybody and you're like,
"Wait a second, I had an instinct that
nope. You you if you forget your
instinct, you forgot your instinct."
Just FYI, that's true for that's true
for everybody, by the way. So, right.
But it would also cost it would it would
cost us a turn on the draw because we're
both exhausted. Yeah. But I think Wait a
minute. How long does that How long does
his light spell last until we camp?
Okay. So, we don't have to worry about
getting rid of the torches and stuff
then. Correct. So, we're we're good with
that. The only grind issue we would have
is probably an encounter or getting
hungry. Just getting Yeah. loaded up on
conditions. So, if we can just maximize
that, like going too heavy and then and
then sort of get the heck out, I think
we'd be okay. The last time I we played
around with doors, I was I I was
sickened by the correct. So, so maybe we
do have Matt take a look at this door.
Check for traps. This is It's his
instinct. It's got to cost a turn, but
it's going to cost a turn, but let's
take a look at it. Yeah. And then um and
if he says it's good, I can go into the
room. another turn, but at least I can
scout the area.
And I would still recommend
um you even before you check for traps
that you know again my my uh my sorcerer
buddy or my sorcerer my uh what am I? I
don't even remember my class. Magician.
You're a mage. Yes. Yes. Your mapmaker.
Tame the mapmaker. But more importantly,
I am also a uh a lore master. And I
remember reading lore about a tomb
explorer and his father. Uh and uh they
had a rune that said only the penitent
man shall pass. And this seems very
familiar to me. You keep you keep trying
to make veiled illusions to Indiana
Jones and Bob clearly doesn't understand
it because Bob doesn't understand
anything that's involving a metaphor.
And that's why I'm continuing.
um turns out only the penitent man only
the penitent man shall pass uh to be uh
respectful or or penitent means uh
asking for forgiveness but um but in
this case it seems similar to me. So the
idea was the penitent man would fall to
his knees um and the blade trap went
over his head. So
perhaps just saying stay low.
Well, let's let's let uh uh Ber take a
look first. Okay. Uh he's going to look
for traps. He's gonna trigger his
instinct and uh turn. And Berber's kind
of low anyway, so that might help.
Just a little bit. Um all right, Berber.
So, as a reminder, when you use your
instinct when you're exhausted, the ob
is one higher. The advantage is that
number one, it's still, even though it
takes a turn, it's still considered to
be happening like quickly. So, it might
prevent future problems or could like
get you ahead of something. Secondly, if
it does work out to your advantage, you
earn a fate point at the end of the um
at the end of the uh session. All right.
So, Berber, as you are approaching the
uh darkened passageway, the the darkened
uh doorway, your instinct to search
doorways for traps triggers and you can
go ahead and make a scout check. Scout.
Scout. Oh, what's the album? That's a
great question. Now, if there was no
trap, I wouldn't have called for
anything.
Can I get help on this, too, or no? Uh,
if because it's an instinct only if
somebody has a similar instinct or if
they are using uh nature descriptor that
would help them. Could you could also
use wise, right?
Um, yes.
Without spending anything. Without
spending anything because I I I have the
folly of the dwarf wise, which I feel
like this is for sure. door. I got to
look up high. No, no, because the folly
of the dwarfs is not going to help you
with the elven rune room. No, no, it's a
doorway. I I have a argument to make
that because this is there's this script
written here and it's not written like
it's it's a riddle.
Yes.
Oh, I see what you're saying. Yes. Okay.
Yeah, totally. I I like the nature of
this of this trap could be a bit of a
riddle. Absolutely, Ryan. 100%, Ryan. By
the way, 100% Ryan, you could totally
have used your nature to try to decipher
this. That's totally within your nature
of riddling.
Um All right. Um
Yeah. All right. So, Ryan, you're
helping? Yeah. Uh anybody else helping?
The only things I could possibly help
with is maybe trying to use my wizard
site to see if there's any more arcaness
in there. Right. But remember, this is
an instinct, so it has to be either a
That's a trait. Yeah. Trait's not not
going to help nature. Then I have puzzle
wise um as my other option. You have
puzzle wise? Yep. Yeah, I think that
plays.
I will I will attempt
to decide uh solve this puzzle too. All
right. As you ramble on about Indiana
Jones. Yeah. Right. Yes. All right. Uh
Indiana. Yes. The OB is three.
I only have a one because I'm six. So I
automatically get a minus one. Yeah. On
my Yeah. But it's with the two help at
three versus three. Yeah. Here we go.
Oh. Uh oh. All right. Any sixes? Any
sixes? No.
Something to reroll? Um, no. Well, it
depends. What are your wises?
Uh, elven wise. Oh, yes. So, you have
here's what be elven wise is totally
This is an elven trap and an elven
dungeon. So, you have two choices. You
could spend a fate point and reroll one
die. Mhm. Or, which is probably what you
want to do, or you could spend a persona
point and reroll all your failed dice.
Obviously, you only have one die that is
failed. So, I would spend a fate point
if you got it. How do I do that with
this?
And then check the fate uh box in your
wises for that wise. Is there a way to
Yes, correct. Roll it by one. There is.
There is. It's all part of the roll uh
screen.
So what you do here because now you're
now you're in the final thing. So what
this is after rolling. So this is called
uh deeper understanding. So you're going
to click deeper understanding
and you're going to tag the wise that
you're using which in your case is elven
wise. And then you're going to reduce
your fate by one and increase your total
spend fate by one. So you're going to go
from 22 to 1 three.
I think I did that right.
[ __ ] And you you did not re succeed.
So, um you know, times are tough. Uh
don't forget to subtract a fate and add
a fate. You can also do that on that
roll menu right there, by the way, too.
That's fine. Um okay, so you go, "Oh,
wait. Of course, I I know this." And
then like, you know, remember to if you
helped, you're also uh bound by the
results of this. Um, so you guys are
like, you know, waiting for a moment and
then a massive scythe blade shoots out
of the uh archway at just about waist
level. Um, and at the last second, at
the last second, uh, you're like, "Get
down." And you dive to the ground and
this the trap spins over your head. Um,
everybody who So, you guys succeeded.
However, instead of being uh killed,
instead the scything blade slashes over
your head and you guys are just made uh
afraid instead. Now, Jim Scott used the
Y. So, it's so he's insulated cuz he was
back going over there, but Ryan helped.
So, remember, stay low. Yes. Um, so
laughing out lou you become uh afraid.
And Ryan, you have to become something
less. So, you become uh hungry and
thirsty.
I worked myself up with appetite, too.
Would you like some of my wine? It just
went over your head. You didn't even
know the duck cuz you're a halflength.
Uh dungeon delving is uh Yeah. You know
what? Yeah, it it cuts to Ryan. He's
just eating while
he wasn't even looking in the same
direction. Um he was like, "Oh, I I
completely missed that." Um all right.
And uh that's a turn.
Okay. Did the trap spring and reset or
is it The trap spring and reset, but you
kind of know where it is now and what it
does, so it's not really much of a
concern as much. Well, I'll avoid it as
I walk into this new area and take a
look around. All right.
Or I guess maybe duck.
Well, yes. Yes, you do need. So, I
actually So, yeah. So, the scythe blade
comes out and normally it would just be
sitting there spinning, but then the
blue mist starts to penetrate it and it
starts to retract back into the hallway.
Can we change the writing to say stand
tall ye who enter here?
I apologize though. Couple changes. A
labor check. Uh some white out. Do that.
I will do that. You could totally make
the labor check there maybe. Uh all
right. I will be the like one. All
right. So you guys begin heading into a
new area.
All right.
Did you want to drink my wine before we
uh left? Uh yeah. So, how how how can I
That's not require anything, right? I
Yeah, if you have food or water, you can
drink it. And you you clearly had time
before that, so you can just drink that.
Then yeah, if you're willing, I'll take
it. Yep. I will delete one of my wine.
All right. Sweet.
All right. Well, I'm going to take a
look around this room. All right. Well,
you enter into the room, Bob. Um what is
your instinct? Uh, anytime we get into a
new area, I need to look around. Okay.
Take a look. Always look ahead when
exploring a new area is specifically
what it is. And you're exhausted. I am
exhausted. All right. So, Bob, this is
going to count as a turn. Yes. And go
ahead and uh make a scout roll. Yep. And
uh what is it against? The uh the OB is
going to be one. Okay. All right. Well,
I've done
worse. Oh, yeah. crushed it. I'm sorry.
The actually was two because you're
exhausted. Because there's actually one
higher. All right. You enter into a
reoquary, an ancient chamber, circular
and domed, held up by ancient elven
pillars. The stone of this chamber
appears to be worn, but the faint
suggestions of ancient runes and carved
figures is visible.
In the center of the chamber is a
glowing blue beam of light which
stretches from the floor to the
ceiling hovering in the blue
beam. A blade. Oh, this is that dagger
that you just changed your freaking
goal. Seemingly made out of bone. Of
course it is. Oh, I'm so bad. So bad.
But I'm also exploring the uh the Dragon
Ball. That's awesome. Um I felt so bad
when you were like you're like I don't
think we're ever going to find this
Dragon Ball place. It's like literally
in the next room laughing. Literally in
the next room.
Um anyway, son of a [ __ ] Um, this room
is still dimly illuminated because of
the, you know, powerful glowing blue,
um, uh, light that is filling from this
chamber.
However, as you enter into the chamber,
Bob, you making a scout role, notice
several other things that become
apparent
before the spectral figure appears. Um,
thank So, the first thing that you
notice, Bob, oh, oh, no. uh before the
uh spectral figure appears is that this
room scattered around the periphery and
edges has
urns ancient clay
urns filled with treasure. Oh, good.
This a good room. Additionally, you can
see that there are uh there's also some
miscellaneous items stashed on like
shelves and little like reoquaries and
little small um uh almost like a like a
workshop around the edge of this place.
But you can also see in four aloves kind
of equally distant around the circular
chamber. You see the form or the forms
of
four skeletal tomb guardians. Oh, [ __ ]
these things surrounding the room. They
are almost identical to what you ran
from before. That's God's worst enemy.
However, all of our worst enemies. You
notice that these four, unlike last
time, one of only one of them was like
this. All four of these wear ceremonial
elven armor. They all wearing chain
mail and they all have a jeweled torque
around their uh former
neck. But they torque. Uh, Torque is a
metal necklace that's like a ring. Oh,
so it's not like loose. It's like
necklace. It's like a like almost like a
choker. Solid. Yeah. But it's solid.
It's like a solid ring around their
neck. But the skeletons do not appear to
be moving and do not seem to be awoken
or energized, but you see them right in
the depths of the shadow sort of
surrounding the chamber. And as you
enter in, a spectral and spiritual force
begins to coalesce in just to the side
of the glowing blue beam in which the
dragon bone blade hovers and floats
mysteriously. His body is ephemeral and
crackles with a blue light. Arcane runes
circle around his floating spectral form
and a very vague Elvish features can be
made out underneath his dark blue
cowl. A voice echoes out echoing or
voice echoes out seemingly coming from
everywhere in the chamber at once. And
if I had some sort of cool vocal effect,
you know, it sound like that weird
echoing reverse sound that echoes into
itself.
Unworthy.
Unworthy. Ye who enter this sacred place
are not worthy to wield the dragon bone
dagger. Go forth from this place lest
your lives be forfeit.
How may we prove our worth?
None shall pass now. Um
you are worthy. But how how do you
identify that we are worthy? Yeah.
You have not the nobility or the grace
to treat with one such as me. I was
God's charged long ago to keep this
blade safe from those who would misuse
its power.
Misuse? I won't misuse the power. We are
here, right? Isn't that worthy enough?
We fought these thieving ratlings uh out
of this
place and we saved the body of this boy
that others have
um robbed at the at the bottom of your
tracks. It sounds like you're trying to
convince this guy. I would like to use
negotiation as my nature. Well,
actually, there's a convinced conflict
that's going to happen.
All right. So, uh, it is social combat
time. Alrighty. So,
um, we are going to go ahead and run a
Do I have my GM screen
somewhere? Loading. Please
wait.
[Music]
Um, I don't even know where my stuff is.
All right. I guess I'll just have to
look it up in the book.
All right. So, uh, yep. I'm declaring a
conflict engage. Uh, I will select the
conflict type. I believe this is called
convince.
Um, and then, um, blackmail, deception,
evidence, finery.
Yes. Now, this might be one of those
weird ones where the rules for this are
in both books, which is
unfortunate.
[Music]
Um, I wish I had my GM screen. I just
don't know what I did with it in all the
intervening months since we played.
I really do not know where that thing
is. All right. Guess I got to look
through the [ __ ]
book. It's a persuader.
What about manipulator?
It says persuader. Damn it. Um, and I'm
afraid so I can't use beginner's luck.
Where are you finding this? Oh, I I have
my GM screen. Yeah. [ __ ] [ __ ] They
don't I believe it's I believe it's in
the in the scholars book, though. They
They don't. So, again, you know, if
you're watching this uh at home um and
you're a uh a fan of indie RPGs, as we
all are,
I'm just going to make a request to the
powers that be, you know, to all the
people out there who are making indie
RPGs. Um [ __ ] organize your books
better. Okay? I'm just talking I'm
talking to John Harper. I'm talking to
Luke Crane. I'm talking to everybody,
okay? Not just I'm not just singling out
one person. You all suck at laying out
your books and putting information where
it makes sense and where it's needed and
you should do better. And uh we were
just talking about that uh yesterday,
weren't we? On uh for disposition uh on
page 63. Uh there's a convince
uh it's the skills and abilities for
disposition uh three. Is it in scholars
guide? Scholars. Yeah. Right. Because
the rules to play the game are not in
the Dungeoner book. All right. Thank
you. All right. I was never happy with
the names of those books either. No,
they're not great. Um I mean, Dungeeer
Guide makes a certain amount of sense,
but um All right. So, we have to pick a
conflict captain. The conflict captain
will roll for the group's disposition
and get plus one die for each other
character helping. This what is the
disposition skill? This is a convince
conflict which means that the role for
disposition is persuader added to will.
I have a two persuader and a for will.
Sounds like it's you. I have the same or
you. I have beginner's luck at
persuader.
Yeah, I
can marry make I can riddle. I got I
think you're I think you have a Now
remember if you do not have the
persuader skill Yeah. then you can use
your nature. Remember you can only use
your nature if you don't have the skill.
Oh, I don't. Which would be I have a
four and a I have Grant I don't know
that I don't know that Mary making a
whole lot of sense here. Yeah. And I
don't think riddling either. Yeah. Not
trying to. So mere booof. Well, I mean
it would if this was a riddle conflict,
right? Oh, right. Right. Which is which
is it own thing. Which is its own thing.
Yes.
Wait. So you said if you don't have it,
you can use your nature. But can't you
also use beginner's luck? Yes. Correct.
But it's just usually your nature is
going to be higher than you know your
other things. So all right. So who is
going to be your conflict captain?
Booth. All right. I'll do it. All right.
Booth B. I need dirty job. Um I need you
to roll uh
persuader. Uh actually let me check.
All right. Okay. So what is your
precedence booth?
Uh hold please. I think it's zero.
Probably zero maybe. Call is very
important to us. What is pre president
precedence is zero.
Okay.
Okay. Um, so precedence works like
might. The way that might works in other
conflicts, we're trying to convince them
that we're worthy and we're like just a
bunch of farm. Yeah. Zero's zero is
soldiers, adventurers, prostitutes, and
criminals. So that's awesome. Yeah. The
the guys who shovel [ __ ] at the cow farm
look down at us. Um, hey, I am one of
those guys. So you may convince you may
convince people whose precedence is
equal to or less than than yours. So,
you are essentially engaging in a
conflict that you cannot actually engage
in, which is fine. Uh, it just means
that you you won't be able to succeed
even if you succeed. But that's okay.
That's okay. Um, at least we'll figure
out what we need to do to prove that
we're worthy. Correct. That's exactly
right, Jim Scott. Um, make better
characters. Um,
well, no. So, this is this is a spoiler
alert. I got a feeling we're going to
have to take your necklace off. Spoiler
spoiler alert. There were some other
areas of the dungeon you were supposed
to go to first before you went in here.
This is kind of like the near the end
like of the dungeon. We didn't get the
note off of the body that told us who
his boss was. Correct. Right. Um
um there may have been a harp involved
that you guys never found. Um so
anyways, uh so this is this is
equivalent to like if you guys were
trying to kill a dragon. A dragon's
might is so high that even you're not
allowed to try to kill it unless you
have a high enough might. And if you try
to kill it, it's like even if you win,
you don't actually kill it. So, here's
the deal. His precedence is is high
enough and yours is so low, he he just
basically is like you're not going to be
able to convince him uh to do what you
want. That doesn't mean that you won't
get some sort of victory. It just means
that you're the core assumption of he is
convinced cannot happen as a result of
that. Um but you get to roll your
persuader and add it to your will. So,
this is a disposition role. So, you can
click on persuader and add it to that.
Do I have any help? Uh yeah, anybody can
help you with uh persuader or any of the
things that can help persuader which is
orator
manipulator perhaps. Yeah, a a nature
could help here obviously too. Um if
someone has a a nature that works. Um
how about how about boasting?
Um yeah, I could go with that. If if you
again you remember in order to help you
have to describe. So you always have to
describe to live and if you make a good
description um we have already done
these deeds. Yes. Right. I I cast light
twice. I will I will also go and tell
you know as uh as Amos is talking to him
and convincing him. I will also tell him
about how uh not not all of us are
humans and dwarves. Some of us are great
elves as well
and a halfling. Wow. We are obviously a
party that uh that has figured out a way
to work together and and we got this
far, right? We must be worthy in some
way. Um pass the challenge of your door.
Yep. We even uh we were even so skilled
that we decided to go right to the
bottom of the well instead of taking the
halfway point.
Um I'm afraid it says no help or
beginner's luck. Does that mean I can't
help or cannot get help?
Uh, it's been a minute since I Yeah,
since I've played. I think it means that
you cannot help. Okay,
but I will double check because it's
been a minute since I played. You cannot
offer help and you cannot use beginner's
luck, but you can use nature if you
wanted to test in place of an unlearned
skill. So, could I use my nature to help
them or no? What's your nature? A
negotiation. Absolutely. Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Perfect. I was like, "Oh, come on, man.
I mean, we like, let's let's break a
deal." All right. I I get it. You're not
just going to give it to us, but All
right, fine. We're not We're not worthy.
What's the price? Everything has a
price. We may not be what you call
worthy. Yeah. But I mean, worthy's
changed in the past like 10,000 years. I
mean, you know, everybody gets a trophy
nowadays. So, I mean, standards are so
much lower. We're much more worthy than
we used to. Am I Am I not getting help
from someone? You are getting help from
me. Bob, how can I I think Bob's giving
you help. Waiting as well. Yeah. So,
Bob's giving you help. Laughing out law
is giving you help.
I don't know about GM Scott and Ryan.
Oh, yeah. I'm absolutely boasting my my
ass off here. GM Scott is using his uh
boasting nature. And speaking of his of
your guys' great accomplishments, Ryan,
what about you?
Uh, I'd like to make a argument for
riddling if I go the route of Bilbo and
give us titles like Oh, okay.
Hell yeah. That's awesome. Yes. So,
totally. I love it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Totally. There's There's precedent in
the Bilbo. I am the barrel rider. I am
the I am the sick taster. Um, and no
one's ever endorsed it, but we do have
Exhausted. Yes. I have I have inhaled
the mist of the dragon twice and I am
still here. That's right. That's right.
Yeah. Booth. So, you're going to check
that one box for you. Do have someone
who is exhausted. And I got elfwise. I
don't know if that helped at all either.
It It would. You could also help with
that, but it does the same thing, which
is plus one. Okay. I didn't know if like
it would if it was different on the No,
no, it does not.
Um, all right. Uh, six dice and Will.
So, here we go.
All right. So you got so you got a total
of one two three successes minus one
because of the exhaustion is two
successes plus four will. So you have
six points of disposition to distribute
amongst the party. So everybody gets one
and then someone gets two. So who gets
two?
And does that count as a successful
persuader role or it does not because
there's no ob.
Okay. You can't fail it or pass it.
Gotcha. Yeah. Uh but uh Boo Boofy, you
are the conflict captain, so you could
decide somebody to get an extra an extra
point of disposition.
Uh me. All right. Six. All right. So, um
I am the only persuader. Yeah. So, um uh
I don't have like icons for this, but uh
so the way convincing works, obviously,
your weapons are are useless. um instead
you have to describe what you're using
and how you're doing it and you have to
have it in the fiction um to to describe
what your action is that can affect your
ability to faint to maneuver to defend
etc etc. Um and you know to that end um
in this particular conflict uh which is
the um uh convince conflict persuader is
used to attack and defend.
Manipulator is used to faint and
maneuver. So, persuader is to attack and
defend. Manipulator is to faint and
maneuver. All right. Um, so let me get
the decks
up. Conflict deck. So, uh, the spirit,
uh, you know, kind of grows large in
front of you, uh, showing off its its
power and its magnificence. It's, you
know, it's uh it's it's preparing to
castigate you for for being here and uh
command you to leave. So that's kind of
like it choosing its weapon. And now I
will choose its
actions. Okay. So I've got three actions
locked in. So remember, you're going to
pick three party members and you're
going to assign each of them an action
card.
Now in this attacking means reducing
your opponent's disposition. Attacking
means you are trying to you know
convince them to to to do the thing.
Manipulator or maneuver means that
you're not necessarily trying to prove
your point. You're trying to set up
another point or attack their point. A
faint is like you're trying to catch
them out with a, you know, like a with
a they said something and you pounce on
it or they uh you c catch them, you trip
them up in a in a confusing, you know,
web of of false logic or whatever. And
then defend is falling back and actually
saying like, you know, like no, like my
our point is good like I I deserve to be
here. I my point is valid and restore
your disposition. And obviously if your
disposition is reduced to zero, you're
not knocked unconscious or anything like
that, but maybe you've been stunned into
silence temporarily or you're
flabbergasted or you know you're you
feel ashamed and you you can't
participate in the conversation
meaningly meaningfully, but you're not
actually like dead or anything. All
right, Booth.
So I have a two persuader, zero
manipulator, just to let you know. And
remember, zero persuader. If you do not
have a skill, if it's at zero, then you
can use potentially use your nature in
its place. Now, if it's within if it's
within your major, then you get to just
roll it for free. If it's without
outside of your nature, then if you
fail, your nature may be taxed. So,
there is a potential cost.
All right.
Um, I think what to
start he's trying to drive us off. He's
he's telling us we're not worthy. We
need to come back later. I think that is
that sounds like a defensive stance to
me, right? He he's blocking us.
I think
we counter with a manipulating faint to
try and spin this yarn that were these
great heroes that have come down here.
So, I'm going to throw a manipulating
faint first. Okay. Well, and you need
right and you need to assign that to
somebody. You're manip. You got
manipulate. Yep. I got a two. Just
remember I am sick. So, I mean, there's
only so I got negotiation as
a as a nature, too. Does anybody else
have manipulator? I don't, but I have
riddink, which would be that you I think
a good argument for We're going to throw
Tane out first because he's was slacking
on the last adventure.
Fair enough. Um, while you guys decide
this, I'm going to look for my [ __ ]
GM screen.
And if I'm right, that could cause
damage if he's defending. Okay,
then I just had this fear. He's saying
like one of them is going to be like the
attack, which is like the get out of
here now like speech part.
So what would be the best if he were to
attack? Defend. If he plays attack, we
want to
uh
defend or maneuver. Yeah,
I'm thinking we maneuver though, right?
I'm thinking we maneuvers manipulator.
Maneuver's manipulator. We do faint
maneuver and then I come in with a
persuader attack.
Okay. Yeah, I I I think that that sounds
good. assuming we think that he's going
to defend.
Yeah, I think me uh for for Tain, he's
got a two in manipulator, but he doesn't
have any in persuader, so he could use
his boasting nature, which is four. So,
just to let you know, you you do you.
Well, if I'm Yeah, you've got me
assigned for manipulator right now,
which is fine. Yeah. I Yeah, that that's
the Yeah, you're you're effectively
fainting. Yep. So, all right. Looks like
we're locked in. But if he attacks,
we're we eat the damage. Okay. Well, you
know, we're going with what we got.
Yeah. All right. Fainting and he is
maneuvering.
Oh. Um, so faint versus maneuver is
independent. Okay. Um, and maneuver
versus faint is independent. Um, so that
means you guys get to make a free
attack. um you know he's trying to uh
you know so his you know he's he's
coming up he's like he's like I am an
ancient spirit of elven wisdom and you
are nothing. You are penniles thieves
and vagabons. You have no right to be
here. He's he's basically list citing
this litany over why you are not worthy
and why you did not deserve anything. We
won't be penniles if you let us loot the
room.
And I say, you know, I boast back
penniles. We we may be, but we are not
unworthy. We, you know, we have uh
avoided the skeletons. We have, you
know, defeated the uh the trap. We have,
you know, and I start listing off all of
the things that we did. Correct. Um so
hopefully that'll help. So I only got
one success. So all right, which is
crazy. Um um and then um but his
precedence is higher than you. And just
like how when your might is higher than
the enemies, you got the bonus
successes. His precedence is high enough
that he actually gets uh two bonus
successes cuz you guys are zero. Um and
so he actually gets three successes. So
he's going to impede you on your next
action, which gives you guys a minus one
die. And he has gained position. He is
his spiritual energy seems to fill the
room. And he's going to like, "Yeah,
yeah, we're right." Yeah.
Uh, and you guys and he's going to get
plus two dice to his next action. But
your faint in which you guys are trying
to basically be like, "No, no, no. We're
actually awesome."
Is unopposed. It's It's against um OB
zero. So, okay. Whatever damage you do
here is damage. So, right now I have
manipulator roll. Yep. Uh versus but OB
zero. It's independent. It is
independent. Okay. Yeah. Independent OB
zero. Um, oh, so that means Yeah. Okay.
Um, so that's only two dice at this
point. We can help. You can help if you
describe how you help. And you could
also potentially use a trait here too,
Tane, if one applies. You could also
potentially tain Oh, you don't have any
persona points. You can't tap your
nature, so never mind.
Yeah.
H well, you know, as he as he says the
um that we are
penniless, I start to jingle that little
sack of coins that I got in my backpack.
What you got to that, huh?
Oh, yes. We are not totally penniles. We
literally have two pennies. Pennies
minus one die. Minus one die. Uh he's
like he goes, "Wait, that's it? Really?
Honestly, that's it? I actually feel bad
for you now." Uh as uh Tane uh describes
uh our accomplishment, I uh afford us a
title for each uh you know uh
fantastic gap jumper. Uh dragon
tamer. Excellent. Um so that's
uh we save respect respectful
the respected. Yeah, save your good
stuff because you know you may need to
use it as
um well no because using that can
actually be that's how you get weapons
in this conflict is role playing.
So like if you actually role play as
that thing that's the weapon. Oh okay.
Now in some cases you actually need
something like if you have like you know
evidence or something like that but did
I see shoes help?
Uh that might not be in a convince
argument. That might be that might that
might be like in a flea argument.
It's like I'm trying to make this
argument and I have my feet my toes out.
Yeah, you're looking at u I think you're
looking at maybe flee I think is what it
is. But um no, that makes sense. Um
anyway, so would I would I be able to do
my boasting in a thoughtful manner using
my thoughtful trait? Yeah, I don't know.
Boasting and thoughtful. If you James
Scott, if you can if you if you can role
play and describe and or speak in
character what a boastful thoughtful
retort sounds like while using
manipulator because you are trying to be
a little bit dishonest here.
Give me a sec. All right.
Um, can I be like
um can I use a elfwise or no? Yes, he's
an elf. Yeah. Or used to be I
go, uh, you know, you talk about
penniles, but weren't the elves focused
more on, uh, knowledge than money?
You know, that's my people, the dwarfs.
We're the ones that like gold. Elves,
what I've always remembered to hearing
is they would rather um have a book than
a bag of gold.
All right, I like it. Yeah, big time.
All right, Tane. Uh, so it sounds like
you've got two dice of help. I will I
will uh aid in my boast in the boasting.
Okay. Uh the the the charge I led
through the ratlings that turned the
tide in the last battle. Uh
ratlings certainly not elves that have
taken up residence in his domain. We
have routed them.
All right. On his doorstep. You're
boasting. All right. I love it. All
right. So Tane, you got three dice of
help for this test and you got one dice
of aid from Laughing Outlaw from from
Ber. So you can add those onto your
thing as well. So you're up to seven
dice here. Okay. And so I do the thing
where I put my hands behind my back and
I start walking slowly back and forth in
front of the party looking at him the
whole time and describing how we we are
worthy because we are um we are brave.
We came to this location. Very few in
the town have been able to do this uh or
willing to do this. We deciphered the
text above. While the stone is like the
sky, beware the living stone. We have uh
moved to the bottom of your well. We've
encountered other guards in this area.
We did not end their existence. So, we
are peaceful as well as brave. We are
adventurous. We kept exploring instead
of leaving. We did not disturb the area
of the webs.
Yeah. So, and and I continue like that
very, you know, very meticulously and
and thoughtfully boasting about all the
things that we've done um leading up to
Yeah. Go ahead. No, I was like, you
should have attacked. You're giving
evidence. You're you're you're like
you're spelling it out. You're not
trying to deceive him. You're trying to
you're trying you're do you're being
actually very thoughtful about it. Well,
we didn't defeat his guards because we
ran from them. So, there is some
that's right. So, you know, yeah, we
were not afraid. We just didn't want to
hurt them. Um, so all right. Well, he
also said we didn't He also said that we
went to the bottom well, not fell
because our rope broke. Correct. Um, but
um, yeah. Okay. So, the real lies about
real facts, not to Franceful padd uh,
uh, paddling. All right, GM Scott, good
job. So, what you're going to get here
is plus one success. Ah, uh, from from
your deception weapon um, that you have
that you have outlined. Oh, I like a
deception weapon. I want to keep that
deception weapon. Um, and so what you
can do there is on your uh board, you
can go down to the second column at the
bottom it says other success and you can
just add one. So it's not a bonus die.
Instead, it's just a bonus success. So
it's
better. You see it? Okay, I see it. I
got it. So this is seven dice from the
help of the party. The whole party's
coming out here speaking of their
demanding their their rights to be
heard. speaking of the the way that
elves are different from dwarves um in
confusing the [ __ ] out of him with
strange titles that don't make any
sense. Um and GM Scott doing his best
like Perry Mason in court. Uh just like
your honor, I will prove be one more
thing. And just Oh yes, I have one more
thing. Um it just doesn't make sense to
me why you'd be living here. Yeah. Why
you said before that she left before she
came home from work. All right. Anyways,
uh but that doesn't count are going to
be on my case. Yeah.
All right. So, let's see. Yeah. And
you're you're fainting while he's
posturing. So, this is against OB zero.
So, if you roll in insanely well, this
will be the thing. Four. Yeah. Look at
that. So, you got four successes plus
one. So, that's five points of damage.
Beautiful. Nice. Wow. Well done, guys.
All right. So, boom. He um you know he's
he's coming out and his spirit is
forming and you guys are coming in with
all of this like deceptive kind of
talking and you're like bringing up this
point about like no you're completely
wrong and let me show you why you're
wrong and all these humans are shouting
at him and the the halflings confusing
him and he's feeling a little bit guilty
because of what and uh and Carnalas are
saying to him and he's the spirits
almost seems taken quite a back. Uh Tane
good stuff. Um, remember you can either
do this now or at the end of the
conflict, but it's probably better to do
it now cuz people I think have been
missing a couple. Remember to mark your
pass and failure. Um, you can mark
multiple passes and failures for
multiple skills in a conflict, but you
can't mark it more than once. Uh, each
skill. All right. So, next goes to
maneuver while he goes to attack. All
right. So, you made your pitch and now
he makes his.
That's not good.
The spirit royals up as he looks down
upon you. There is only one elf amongst
you. The rest of you are unworthy to
walk in these halls. You seek treasure,
not victory. You know nothing of this
place. You know nothing of this
struggle. You would wield this dagger as
a mere trifle. or perhaps sell it for a
mere night's pleasure or a cask of wine,
ignoring its noble purpose. I have
existed for a thousand years to keep
this vault sacred and kept safe from the
likes of people like you. You shall
depart from henceforth from these halls
immediately and never return.
Look at him like, "Okay, I was with you.
Everything except that last part." Yeah,
exactly. I'm I'm still going. Okay, so
hold on a second.
And it would probably I'm a dwarf. I
don't sell amazing pieces of um weapons
and armor. Those things are meant to be
cherished. Gold, that's what it's there
for. But that no, that is a treasure to
always be hel beho be held and
appreciated. And yes, there's only one
elf amongst us, but
realistically that doesn't matter. Me
and him have help. I mean, dwarves and
elves. Come on. You know, as you know,
we have not been the best of friends.
And we might. Your existence here proved
that this elf is not even worthy of the
title elf. Yes, he is. You know why? The
elfiest elf we've ever That's right. I'm
a I'm a six nature elf.
He's more elf than you are. That is
true. My nature is five. So,
he's like, "Oh, no shit." Okay. Damn it.
Um, all right. So, laughing outlaw that
you were you you were maneuvering. He is
attacking. However, he did set you guys
up last turn. So, you guys are going to
roll with one less die and he's gonna
roll with two more dice.
With a manipulator. So, yeah. So you are
uh this is a So you're going to do a
manipulator because you are
uh
maneuvering and like 12 dice versus
right and then it's a versus um and so
well you notice he never put a number
above that guy to show what his dis
disposition was because it it sometimes
it doesn't work. He does sometimes see
it it's there. I just didn't uh I didn't
show it to you guys. Oh, I just figured
his his uh he was like it like defaults
like for him only. It defaults to just
to not showing. Yeah, there you go. I
just figured with his precedence so
high. No. So you should see it now.
No, maybe. Yes, that's all right.
Uh oh, there we go.
Ah. Oh my god. What's going on?
Rebellions are built on hope. Rebellions
are built on hope. Um, okay. So, Bert,
you are going to be making a uh
persuader check. Um, this is a I'm
sorry, a manipulator. Manipulator. Um,
so this is versus. Normally, it would be
versus five dice, but because he
maneuvered, it's versus seven dice.
Oh, one versus seven. I could use some
help here, guys. Just saying. All right.
I walk over to the dwarf and I tell the
um ghost uh elf ghost that times are
changing and I will speak for this dwarf
as being a fine uh dwarf uh the finest
of dwarfs and I put my arm around him
and I kind of like hold them but like
everyone else can tell there's a big
grimace on my face. I'm just struggling
to do this. It looks so uncomfortable.
Yeah, you better not push you out of
wave of poison gas. I don't want to hear
your grimaceness.
Smell like poison gas. Yeah, your fault.
Um All right, Bob. Keep it down. He can
hear you. Yeah. Uh Bob, how are you
helping then? I am trying to um convince
him that uh where he was saying that you
know basically we were all unworthy but
maybe there's an elf that uh that um we
are actually friends and these people
are all equal to me uh as as you see
that I am this great elf or elf that
these people are my friends and we we do
we are we are in this together. Got it.
So, I'm trying to manipulate, convince
him a little bit because I actually
don't really care for this dwarf that
much, but correct. Manipulating means
using lies, halftruths, ugly truths. Uh,
to get your point, friends. Yeah. Yeah,
we are friends. All right, so that's
good. So, you got one die of help. Yep.
Anybody else in the party? Um,
manipulator can be helped by
manipulator, haggler, persuader, and
remember, uh, if you don't have any of
those, uh, skills, you could potentially
help with your nature. And of course, I
have the as a GM, I have the right to
allow one other skill to be helpful in a
check if I feel like it is a good thing.
So, it's always useful to describe your
help, and I might just say, "Nope, that
doesn't help." But, you know, you're not
you're not out anything if that doesn't
work.
Um, I have a question. How uh Ber used
his wise and it got it benefited this
role differently. What was how did it
benefit the role differently? Uh, he did
aid. Yeah. What is what is aid in in a
conflict doesn't really do much. Aid
normally protects you from the downsides
of failing a role. Um so oh I thought he
used it for the last one but it was just
helping. Okay. I because I was in this
cuz I have this idea now you can tell me
if this is going to work but in a social
conflict y if I were to say like
flourish every thing that someone was
saying as an argument one way or the
other would that be a little needled a
little saltwise seasoning it you know
saying yeah you know metaphorically
that's awesome I love it that is
absolutely you VIP today you got the
VIP basically you're going full hype
Man, you're just like you're like Car's
like he's like he's like he's my friend
best
friend under under Yeah. Yeah. You've
got some Why is he got a big clock on a
necklace around him? You don't
understand. He's just he's just the hype
man just
going Sunday crew. What? Um that's
awesome, Ryan. Yeah, totally. Um so
Laugh Outlaw, you can add a aid die to
your check as well. um as uh Saddok
throws in the little little bit of salt.
Although that was a good argument. Could
use a little bit more.
So, uh this is a maneuver. So, we're
trying to set up correct. You're setting
up for a big performance for for the
attack that I'm doing. Right. Right. He
and he's going on that we're we're you
know using these things for frivolous
purposes. Correct. What? So I am going
to uh set up my attack argument okay by
saying you know holding up the shield of
lit with the f fire of the burning lord
says the power of the gods is mine's
command I can use these powers for
anything I desire and I'll finish that
thought on my card. Okay sounds good.
All right. Um interesting mechanic to
like set up in the convince thing. It's
interesting. I kind of like that
laughing at law. Add another help eye
from Booth B. And then Jim Scott, do you
want to help at all or can you? Uh,
well, of those skills you mentioned, the
only one that I actually have any points
in is manipulator. Yeah. So, you can um
All you have to do is describe how
you're using lies, halftruths, ugly
truth, platitudes, seduction, or
intimidation. Bob, we've been here
before. Seducing a ghost. Yeah. Oh my
god. I think the the ugly truth is
probably the ugly truth that is along
the lines of what we're trying to
establish here is
that up until just uh recently I didn't
trust any of these guys cuz I didn't
know them. But having spent time with
them, they are now my best friends. So
that's the halftruth, right? Uh it's
partially true, right? I do not not
trust them anymore. Um, but yeah, they
are now my greatest companions. And I
also will walk to the other side of the
dwarf and put my arm around him as well,
mirroring the elf. And the again, I
cannot stress this enough. This is all
manipulated. All of this is a lie and
this is all just being like none of this
going. None of this is true. I love it.
Truth. After sort of friends. Definitely
not besties over here with Ryan's
character drawing.
All right. So you now have three dice of
help, one dice of aid, two dice of
manipulator, but you're sick, so you get
a minus penalty to dice. Um, you have I
would like to use my trait cunning.
Yeah. Oh, yeah, for
sure. For sure. For sure. Um,
additionally,
um, yeah, you guys didn't really
intimidate, which is what's normally
used for maneuver.
Uh, but whenever you cuz you can also be
unarmed and get a penalty. But whenever
you evoke your beliefs, traits,
personalities, it counts as an
improvised weapon in convinced traits.
So you don't get a bonus, but you don't
get the penalty for being unarmed. Just
like in combat, if you're unarmed, you
get a penalty. Well, if you're unarmed
in a conflict, if you just go, uh,
listen to us, that's counts as being
unarmed. So it's six dice versus seven.
I mean, it's as good as you're going to
get. Is there a way to add a persona or
fate, or is that just after the roll?
You could channel You could channel your
nature. Laughing outlaw.
And in this case, it would be within
your nature, right? Isn't your nature
negotiating? Negotiating. Yeah. Oh, wow.
Because he's that's a choice he made.
Most dwarfs don't have that. He took
that and replaced um what was it?
Ancient grudges. Yeah. Because of his
choices that he made. So, his dwarf is
much more willing to compromise. All
right. So, what you got to do here then,
uh, Matt, is take your persona down to 1
one from
20 and No, no, no. And you can do that
right there on the roll screen. Okay.
Right there at the top of the middle
column.
There you go. Yeah. And then click the
channel nature button.
There it is. All right. Cool. And then
it's within your nature because you do
have this negotiating nature. So, this
is you digging deep into what it means
for you to be a dwarf, right? For you
being a dwarf means negotiating, coming
up with compromises, figing out the
deep, and you're digging super. So now
you have 10 dice versus his seven. Now
keep in mind this isn't an attack, but
it will defeat his attack because it's a
versus. So if you win, he doesn't. And
also remember that precedence works like
might, which is the bonus successes he
gets, he only gets if he wins. Does that
make sense? Okay.
All right. Here we go. Here we go, baby.
Let's do this.
Oh, okay. Okay. So, so um No, no, this
is this is this is a tie. Mhm. You could
gain two checks if you give it to him.
Correct. That's right. If you break a
tie breaker in your opponent's favor, uh
you gain two checks, but that means he
will do his precedency. Well, it means
that it means that he essentially wins
by one and then he would add his
precedence uh a bonus over you which is
two. Um and he would do three points of
damage to you guys. Yes. But if we keep
it like this next round, no. If you keep
it like that, tiebreers have to tie
break. So if if if you guys don't break
this tie, um then we have to go to a
tiebreaker. Could I roll a precedent to
roll all the failed dice? Um persona
roll. If you have a wise that applies
healthwise, then yes, you could.
All right. And you also rolled this one
six. You could roll that again to
explode it. Well, you have to spend a
fate point for that. Yeah. But I would
rolling all those failures is a much
better chance of getting one success.
So, here's what you do. Um, uh, Matt
Matt, you click the of course.
Three, four, five, six. Yeah, there's
seven worms in there. You're going to
reduce your current persona by one. and
you're gonna increase your total spent.
And then you're gonna you're your elf.
Um and then note click the persona
button because you're gaining wisdom
from this.
And then how many failed dice were it?
Seven.
Uh five. Five. So I'm just counting them
on the screen. Uh one, two, one, two,
five. So then you're going to tick up
that zero failed dice to five failed
dice.
Yep. And then you hit roll. Of course.
Um of course. Yep.
Hey, wow. Okay.
But that means you won.
I'll take what I can get. Um, no damage
though, right? But it means you do not
take any damage. And remember, this was
his big setup from his manipulator.
So he he you know um you you
guys starts being like well if you will
remember in 1722 the dwarves and the
elves agreed at a at a 3% marginal rate
to and he just like he goes so deep and
somehow manages to deflect the attack of
this guy and you guys are actually still
kind of convinced that you might
actually be worthy even though you
probably know that you're not. You do.
Don't put me back up to cuz that was
everything I had right there. I I think
that was well worth it. Now you guys got
Maneuver a one point of success which is
enough to impede him. So he's going to
have minus one dice. It's the only thing
you can choose when you beat maneuver by
one. So he actually is on the back foot.
He's going to be at minus one die to
this last action which is Amos versus
the elven guardian spirit. Amos
is attacking.
him. I've never This is the most
exciting social conflict ever.
I'm kidding. And he is attacking. So,
oh, Berber finisher finishes making his
space or his speech. And the guardian
spirit seems to be a little bit cowed.
He's at two of seven. He's actually kind
of like feeling like what what is going
on right now? And he comes forward and
Amos steps forward and he steps for the
el the elven spirit seems to grow in
size and stature and nature. And he all
only thing he says is he says I have
seen through the skins of fate the very
weave of time and I know the truth.
The truth
is that your rag tag
group is not the chosen's ones that I
have been waiting
for.
No, you are the inferior group to the
other.
That brother,
he cuts you deep right to the bone.
I am aware of all the happenings within
this dungeon. I have seen your failures
and your follys. I cannot even sense the
other party, for they have left to go
back to town to spend the riches that
they have pulled forth. You carry around
mere trifles and trinkets in a headless
boy's
corpse in the in the in the
hopeless pitiful belief that somehow
these poor shepherds are going to
somehow give you the money. When you get
back to town, you are going to discover
that you don't even have enough money to
buy bread.
I like how Dar
said Russia. So join us. So that other
guy or that other party uh you said
we're not worthy because we're just
going to spend the money in town. And
yet he says the other party is worthy
because they are spending the money in
town. Yeah. He's like I wish they would
come back cuz at least they at least
they kick ass, you know? At least
they're do taking care of business. Um
how much damage did they do to you?
From my attack as I was setting up my
maneuver. Yes, correct. I wield the
god's own thunder. And what did I come
here for?
to find this missing boy whose life was
lost stumbling into your halls by
accident. My one concern was for his
safety when we found that he was not
that he had already fallen. My one
concern to return him to his family for
no reward. The other group left him at
the bottom of the pit to rot in your
hall. If the spirit could shake more
worthy than us. If the spirit could
shake his head, he would.
foolish human with your frail
sensitivity and your frail concern. You
think I care about some human boy? That
town of his could rot. All of their
bodies laying corpses. The endless eons
are what I'm dealing with here, boy. I
care not for your heroic antics of
saving the dead. No, I have a much more
noble and glorious purpose. I am here to
defend the one weapon that might save
the entirety of this land from the evil
that sleeps beneath our very feet. You
speak to me of shepherd's ch children
and I am speaking about the cosmic
balance of good and evil. Be gone. If
you are aware of all the dealings in
this tomb, then you have seen that
I since I have been here have lived up
to the guiding principle to be a
defender of the defenseless.
a defender. What I need is a soldier. I
need a warrior. I need someone who can
wield this dagger and serve it for the
use it for the purpose for which it was
constructed to strike down that which is
draconic. Are you that man? Go over and
grab it.
You know what's so funny is
my goal is to impress my team with my
bravery. Yeah.
[Laughter]
Well, that that that is the best attack
I could come up with. All right, Booth
B. Um, you're gonna go ahead. So, this
is attack versus attack. I don't feel as
though he was impressed. These are
independent, so you guys go past him.
So, you're probably going to kill him.
The question is, how many people does he
take out? Kill him in the conflict. Um,
how many people does he take out on his
counter attack? Yeah. Yeah. He's only
got to roll six successes. All right.
Booth. All right. So, this is a
persuader. Persuader. And of course, you
can be aided and helped by people in
your party with uh the appropriate
skills.
Uh, wait. This is independent. Yep.
Independent. Ob zero. All right. Because
it's just attack versus attack. Neither
of you was defending there. You were
both just like throwing blows at each
other. You weren't like trying to like
defend your point. You were just trying
to make yours.
Um, okay. Who's got have anything for
this? Persuader is Persuader is helped
by persuader or manipulator. That's it.
This is This is for all the marbles
we're going to lose anyway.
And of course, you also have to describe
it and has to you have to describe why
you're helping and how that helps. So
remember this is I'm sorry this is an
attack. This is a persuader. This is
different than what you guys have been
doing which is these lies and hash
truth. This is where you're making a
point you know based in truth and based
in evidence and based in your beliefs.
So while this was going on and he was
talking about the ancient evil and yeah
he's he's been around for a while and
defending against what's what lies
further beneath. Um, I'm
gonna peruse my my memories and my notes
and my scrolls and
I'm Can I use Lore Master to try and
figure out who he's talking about and
what he's talking about? Maybe I I will
allow you to I will allow you to help
with that skill. So, that is a bonus
thing. So, cuz we can figure out what
he's talking about. Maybe he'll, you
know, maybe that'll help cow him and and
and say, "Yeah, okay. Maybe they do know
what they're doing." Okay. Yeah. Jim
Scott. All right. So, Boothy, that's one
die of helping. Can I Can I use elfwise?
Sort of like the same way GM Scott used
it, but more elven history of great
because it's a draconic dagger. So, it's
got to be some kind of dragon. Yeah.
Yeah. That's actually the same real
anti-dragon, right? It's anti-dragon. I
have the location of elf wise basically.
Yeah. And so I was thinking the same
thing like you talk about this these
ancient you know guardians that are
meant to use this and I I would know
these stories. So you you talk about
this that is hypothetically that is us
that
is Amos. It's probably not me that's
that guy. Yum. All right. So yeah, so
actually you too uh recall on the GM
Scott in the language in the ancient
texts there is the story of the elves
and their war against Zargax the great
dragon and uh Zarax who almost laid low
the elven civilization. It was Zarax's
and their almost defeat at his hand that
led the elves to found this place to try
to uncover the secrets of magic so that
they could never be destroyed by Dragon
Kind again. Zargax did die and as part
of that they took Zarax, one of Zarax's
um ribs and they carved it into a blade
that focused all of that fell beast's
power and the elf's hatred of the dragon
into a blade that could defeat a great
draconic enemy should one ever arise.
But worried that it would fall into the
wrong hands, it has remained in Tol
Amroth for the past thousand years.
Do not fear, there is an elf in this
party. More importantly, there is a mage
in the party.
Now I
I have a which one of you there's an
argument there's an argument that you
you you that you there's always I could
I want Saddak is gonna he's taken the
hype man he wants to push up and be like
yeah you know uh I refute your claims of
the skiing of destiny we stand before
you not the other group not my brother
me and he's going to dig and joy to his
all his hidden depths Oh, okay. Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. All
right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Totally. Yes.
You're talking about skina destining.
We're here. We did it. You know, the
other group didn't come this way. We
did. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Awesome. So,
everyone helped successfully. That's
awesome. Um. All right. Booth. So, it's
six dice versus obzero. You need to do
two points of damage. Do you want to do
anything else involving traits or
persona or can't think of anything right
now. All right. Let's roll
it. Now, of course, remember the
counterattack is coming. Three
successes. There we go. That's good. All
right. So that will eliminate him.
Now, is that a pass persuader? Uh, but
there's no OB. Technically, it's against
OB zero. So,
yes. Um, however, his attack still rings
in. And let's see how this can work. So,
I mean, it hurt me just listening to you
tell us about that,
right? Um, so, and remember, he also has
his precedence advantage. So, normally
he would roll five dice, but he is
manipulated. You guys maneuvered. So,
he's actually only at four dice.
Unfortunately, this is four dice plus
two. So, it's So, I got two successes
plus two. So, that's four successes. So,
he takes out uh he takes out Karanas.
Oh, he takes out
Amos and then he takes out uh
Tain. But I mean it it doesn't really
matter from a it doesn't actually matter
from purposes, but that's what it would
happen. But you guys get reduced to
zero. He is reduced to zero. You have
won the conflict. However, because his
precedence is higher than you, you
cannot actually convince him. So
instead, you have to uh deal settle for
a like, for example, if you guys tried
to kill a dragon, you would not be able
to succeed. But if you won the conflict,
you know, maybe you drove him off
instead of killing him, but he What if
we had that dagger? Uh, right.
This spirit seems to at at the at the
final um at the final insistences of the
party, the uh the part the spirit seems
to What's going on
here? Why is that not
resetting? Oh, interesting. That used to
reset
that. They must have updated like roll
20 or
something. It normally gets rid of that
little X thing.
Um, the uh the spirit hovers for a
moment
and regards you
intently. Perhaps you are
worthy of a
chance. The dagger I shall not let you
claim today.
However, if you return with
Euphonius, the harp of the
grave, you will have proven yourself
worthy in this ancient guardian's
eyes.
However, should you not
return, I will know that you are
cowards, charlatans, and cheats.
But the halfling's words do speak to
something or some kernel of truth.
Perhaps the scheme of destiny itself
does have something to do with
you. The skeletal guards animate around
the edge of the room. A dang,
right?
I assume they're not attacking us.
They're going to help us carry all that
treasure. Yeah, buddy. You You silly
silly boy.
Um, hold on one
second. We
go. Loading. Please wait. Loading.
Please
wait. Apparently, you guys have uh you
guys have never uh you know, it's like
that line from the Matrix, like where
it's like, "Why do my eyes hurt?" It's
like you've never used them. I had never
used them before. That's like you guys
with loot. Yeah.
We do all these great things and we get
jack [ __ ] for it. Yep. The four
skeletons come forward each bearing and
earn and deposit four stacks of gold
coins at your feet. Oh, that's what I'm
talking about.
The spirit says this. is but a part of
the wealth of Tol Amroth. I care not for
trinkets or treasure, but I cannot give
away so cannot give away easily that
which my people left in my
protection. Still, you have impressed me
this day. And while I will not give you
the dragon bone dagger, you may take
these coins under the belief that you
will return with the harp, prove
yourself worthy, and then your destiny
shall be revealed to you, and your final
quest be made
manifest. If you are willing to accept
the terms of these conditions, I will
place upon each of you a gear, a magical
quest and compulsion that should you
fail, will result in your death
regardless. I step forward. Oh, sick.
Nice. Can I use negotiation to maybe get
a little bit more gold out of this? Like
another stack so get one. If if if four
of the if you guys hadn't been reduced
to like two disposition, you probably
would have gotten more. The fact that
you're getting this at all is because
you guys did so well. Yeah, it's funny
cuz I was like, yeah, I'm going to
switch to D and D mode right here. Hey,
uh that isn't enough. Give us more. No,
no, well, now to be fair, this is the
compromise. You won the conflict and I'm
saying that so the compromise is by the
way that you guys are all made uh you
get this gold. You guys are all made
hungry and thirsty and you guessed it
afraid.
Uh so that's the compromise. The
compromise is he gives you the gold. He
sell told you what you need to do. You
get the geas in the quest. You get eight
dice worth of cash. Each of those stacks
of gold is worth two dice. And you get
the afraid uh condition because of the
chilling nature of his words that dug
into your bones. Now, you won. Hungry,
thirsty, and afraid. Uh, hungry,
thirsty, and afraid.
But that's up to you guys. I mean, you
we can negotiate. You won the conflict.
So, Booth B is ultimately the one who
gets to decide whether or not you guys
accept those terms.
But we are past the point of checks. The
checks have gotten us to this point, if
that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah.
I don't know what else we would give up.
Well, it's more of like is that enough?
Do you feel like you have been remember
you you tried to kill a dragon here,
right? Like you you you guys do not have
the first level characters against the
big dragon. Well, yeah. You guys do not
have the precedence to convince him. So
that that's why you even though you
succeeded, that's why he's not convinced
in giving you the dagger. If you guys
had have been presidents high if you had
been presidents too then you could have
you know he would have listened to you
but you're still not he he's basically
telling you this is what you need to do
to get that but he does feel like you
know you've proven some of your worth
here's some gold but the experience
still left you a bit hungry thirsty and
afraid but that's if you guys accept
that hey Boothby you might want to ask
he said we're
worthy and might be worthy well might be
worthy but we're the only worthy ones
cuz he's been so flip-flopped a lot.
First, it's not about the treasure, then
it's about this other group that is
about the treasure and then they left
and but we're still hang we're in here
trying to find the truth and they just
grab some gold and went back to spend
it. So, I mean, he's sort of flaky a
little bit. Maybe we are the worthy ones
compared to the other guys. So, so we're
all in a group and I kind of stick my
head up and I'm like, "Just a minute.
We'll be right with you." Yeah. I mean,
this isn't happening in character. I
mean, this is happening.
Of course, I I think we're good. I mean,
I don't I'm all I'm all for getting
guest. I mean, we were gonna do this
anyway, right? I put my hand on Amos'
shoulder. I said, "You don't have to
make this call. I will." And I walk
forward to get the blessing as I bow
down in front. I cannot speak for I
cannot speak for my allies, but Karan
and I at least will volunteer. I was in
the Bob. Oh, that's true. Bob probably
doesn't know what gu means, so he called
it a blessing. I'll just say, "Yeah,
okay. No, no, this is a curse. This is a
curse." But but but Karanas doesn't know
that. So, I'll just say, "Yeah,
blessing." Yeah. See, here's the thing,
though. I could totally cure us of a
curse. I might explode, though.
Everything you do, you might explode.
That's the same chance of it. You guys
might see it as a curse, but to me, I
mean, I'm already about to go into the
next level or Netherlands. So to me, you
know, maybe dying for this uh this great
cause of finding uh getting if I can't
complete this and I what what's worth
living anyway? Yeah. Well, and it would
be brave, right? Yeah. I'm I mean you're
sad is kneelled with with carnal
accepting it. Stepping forward. So we're
volunteering to come back, prove our
worth, take the dagger, and kill the
dragon. Yes.
Well, I mean that's going to stop
us. It's the harp. Yeah.
means we got to kill them. Well, do they
even know about the harp? Not until they
watch this
episode. That's true. So, uh well then
then then we may have to have a very
special session where we get 10 people
in Zoom.
[Laughter]
Two groups enter, one group leaves,
right? Two groups enter, one group
leaves. Uh the other group has decided
that you guys have chosen to drive off.
The other group has decided to
kill [ __ ]
Um, but yeah, I I I go for it. I I don't
suppose you can tell us where the harp
is as you are. Uh, so has everyone
accepted the terms of this? I think
Matt's the only one that hasn't said
yes. I've been letting you all talk, so
I don't want to interrupt.
Um, he, you know, he's born of earth and
stone. He's like, he's not going to let
an elf show him up
about defeating a dragon.
So, yeah. with a small piece of bone.
So yeah, he's going to accept it. He's
not going to let an elf and a bunch of
humans um show him up.
Brave happily. Happily.
You've been promoted to a human.
Um all right. Well, good work shoes. The
spirit seems pleased that you all have
agreed to this Guus. and he waves his
hands and uh you feel the ancient me
elven magic surround you, blue light
surrounding you with runes sort of binds
around your wrists and your uh chest,
the circles kind of glow brightly and
then sink into you. He then
explains that um for every So here's the
fine print. So here's the fine print.
Here's the fine print. Every time you
end a town phase, if you haven't been to
toll amroth since that town phase, you
all suffer a condition, the next
condition. So, it just keeps it just
keeps grinding you basically. Like,
you'll basically grind in town as long
as you don't keep coming back here. So,
no two town phases in a row, right?
Well, or you could do a town phase and
then you go do some other adventure and
then when you come back and do the town
phase, you would get hurt. Wait, there's
another adventure? Yeah, I mean, of
course. I mean it's it's a sandbox booth
be this isn't the only dungeon. This is
dungeon number one. There's dungeon
number two. I thought this was a mega
dungeon. I thought this the kind of game
I hate. No, no. This dungeon
has 18 areas. 20 areas maybe. So So the
question is you said town phase. So what
happens if we go to a city? Well that's
the same as crossroads. It's all that
count. That's all town. It's all town
phase. Anytime it's a town phase. Yeah.
anytime it there's only three phases in
the game. Adventuring phase, camp phase,
and town phase. You're in one of those
three. All right. Um yeah, he uh he
seems he seems pleased that you have
taken that um upon yourself. And then he
you know, he he he pauses for a moment.
You know, you guys did defeat a higher
precedence guy. And he
goes he kind of floats over and he waves
his hand and he says, "One more thing.
Maybe you are the ones that I have been
waiting for for a thousand years. But
you guys suck and you will need help.
That's why we're here to get the dagger.
Well, the dagger I cannot just give
away. But I could could use a new spell.
Perhaps this could help you. Oh, it does
look like a spell. You had to see. There
we go. Ancient elven spell book.
He just takes it. Oh, sorry. Did you
guys see that?
Did you even read that, sir? Um, I will
learn. Um, so hold on a sec. But just
FYI, this is uh pack two because it's uh
it's the big to. No, all all spell books
are pack two. Even GM Scott's current
one is to pack two. We got to make sure
we can bring all this stuff. Um, so
Jim's got this contains Aetheric
appendage, Ethereal Premonition, Wizards
Aegus, and Destiny of Heroes. Okay, so
all three of those are better than
everything I've got.
Uh, well, the one is second level, so
you don't even have the ability to cast
it yet. But,
um, anyways, uh, you can cast the spells
out of the book, you know, right? But,
um, but you'll need to translate it
first, which will probably involve a
scholar check because, yeah, it is in a
weird Elish language that you don't
know. However, you do not currently have
space to carry this book. Just FYI. Um,
I have a heavy bag. I have a giant sack.
Oh, okay. Okay. Well, yeah, but you're
also carrying a jug. So, no, I'm not.
No, you're not.
We're about to drink. We all need to
drink anyway. See if you can do a slide
of hand to replace your jug treasure.
So, the spirit. Yeah. Two drinks of wine
that I can get. The the tome guardians
kind of like hem in around the spirit.
And basically the spirit seems to
indicate take your [ __ ] and go and
return with me with a harp. So sounds
good.
All right. I'm going to I'm going to
consume one of those wines. Does anyone
want the other one? All right. So that's
one that's that's one heart. That's one.
Uh and uh no remember. Yeah. Consuming
wine in the adventury phase just cures
hungry and thirsty. Um it doesn't
doesn't u you only as a recovery check
does it give you a bonus uh for
recovering from angry.
Uh, do we want to wrap? We can get rid
of I can get rid of this bottle if that
would be two more uses of how much can
isn't our mule. How much can I have a
heavy sack and laborer so I can hold
another six cuz I don't have a the
crossbow's gone so my hands are free.
Well, remember making a laborer check is
uh a check. I mean like a test. Well,
yeah, but you said the that's if I want
to do that's if you want to if you want
to Yeah. if you want to uh uh uh dual
wield it, but just just equipping your
sack er in both hands gives you an extra
six slots, which I just added to your
your character sheet. So, yeah. So, uh
uh uh now got his large stack slots
basically.
Yeah. So, just transfer over uh he can
take all the gold and then transfer over
something tane just to hold on to the
book like your hammer or petons or
whatever. Whatever. All right. So,
you're loading. So, sover goes full
Santa Claus. He's just got two hands on
this big sack just over his shoulder.
It's full of
gold. Um,
uh, there should have been four gold.
Uh, one went to Amos. Oh, okay.
Got to be quick. Uh, battle leader.
There's wine sitting out in the middle
of nowhere. I'm the leader leader. One,
one of those wine. Actually, both of
those wines have been consumed. Got it.
Got it. The jug is still there. Okay.
Um, I have taken the jug out of my hand,
which means my jug slots can go, but
I've put the sack in my hand. All right.
Well, the sack I I can't put the staff
in my sack. Correct.
That is correct, sir. Why don't you just
give your flask of oil over to Saddok
and then just carry the books or just
give me your
the hammer. Put them in my bag and then
put it put that in your bag. You'll have
two slots of the books. Yeah, there you
go. And I got one extra space. One, two.
I got two, three extra spaces I can
stick crap in. All right, I got it.
Let's go. All right.
Do you go for the Do you go for the
daggers, dear Scott? No. No. I I was
half tempted to go try and grab some
gold with my criminal skill. I think we
have I don't know if there's an
opportunity. Of course there is. If you
want No, no, no. We need to We our
safety is on the line. We We should
Let's get We have what we came for. And
here's the most important part. We don't
have to climb up that shaft because we
got the map. So, we can just teleport
up. We also don't have any checks to do
anything with. Yeah, that's true. That's
correct. We got one. I got one. Do we
need checks in town, too? Uh, why do you
have a check, Ber? Did you use my
cunning? Oh, use your cunning against
yourself. Okay. Make sure you mark that
so that people can see that. That's
important. Oh, so there you go. Perfect.
All right. So, you do have one check.
Um I we uh are we gonna I we I should we
should probably drink or eat something
that a couple of us that have Yeah. The
people that are angry and thirsty you
should I ate a ration.
Um now might I suggest on our way
out that we relock the dragon door? Yes.
I was actually going to ask if that's an
option that we can do or not. Mhm. You
can. It probably costs a check or
something. It does. You You have to
spend You have to spend an action. All
right. Then I want to make sure before
we have use this last check, I want to I
will not I will just drink a a drink of
my for my judge. You mean your last
turn?
Yeah. Before this before then because
then I'm then I would get and then you
would get you would get angry. Yeah.
Right. Yeah. Her needs to drink or eat.
Yeah. Then needs to eat or drink well if
you want to avoid that as well. Urb
pretty much has every condition. He's
getting to the point where it's just
anything happening a little rough. I'm
just not injured or or angry. Yeah, that
makes no sense for a dwarf.
So, yeah. So, you suck drink or eat? You
have two You have two things of wine. I
I have a wine if you want to drink uh
her. You don't have anything left to eat
or drink, right? Nope. I've been Yeah.
Well, Amos has a couple rations. Um you
guys, a couple of you have some wine
left in your skins. Mhm. Uh Sadak still
has a bottle of wine. Yeah. So drink it
up. All right. Thank you, Sadak. All
right. Cashers do you're an er.
I guess I can hold the jug even if it's
empty. Yeah, but you can hold the jug
even though it's empty. Maybe to reby a
new one. I put the jug in my bag. Or do
you want to use your food? How How Oh,
um I guess that would be
later. Um
what was the question? Uh, I was just
wondering because I'm looking at as
afraid thing, but we don't have I don't
We would need to get one more check for
it. Uh, correct. Yeah. Well, right. You
Well, right. You'd have to go to camp to
do that, right? Yeah. Um, I mean, you
could go to camp and Herbert could give
you his check.
Um, but um, couple things. Uh,
uh, did you guys delete that wine that
you that Herbert and Saddak just drank?
No, that's what I was trying to tell
them to do. Oh, okay. I have one in my
pack or my wine skin if anyone needs it.
All right. Well, it's gone. I just
deleted it. And then for And that's for
And then Saddak is still hungry. Thirsty
needs. Yeah, I'll take mine. I I'll
drink that. I'll take this one. Right.
Yep. Perfect. Now we're good. Now we're
good. Okay. Just want to double check on
that. All right. Well, so you guys
depart this room. Yep. Back to the other
room or whatever. Yeah. The spirit waves
at you. Um Oh, I wave back. He's like,
"See you, boys. Have fun storming the
castle. Uh,
he was friendly. It'll take a Guus.
I kneel and walk out the door.
Um, okay. Yeah, we definitely have to
crawl out. You guys had Oh, you're
crawling, right? Yeah. Okay. Cuz nobody
else said that they were. Well, he was
going first. Uh, I didn't trap both
ways, I guess. But I guess that's a
respectful exit here. Yeah. So, all
right. All right, Ryan saves you all
from getting hit by the the trap that
you knew was there. Um,
all right. So, you return to the
antichamber. Um, and of course the doors
behind you are still sealed because you
guys spiked them. Yep. Um, and then of
course, uh, Kurt's body is in this room
where you left it.
All right. So, we unspike the door.
Leave. All right. What? Lock the door.
Uh, so you're leaving Kurt's body here?
Oh, sorry. Grabbing Curt's grabbing the
body. All right. So,
has been carrying it. So, how are you
carrying it? It was a laborer check
before. Correct. So, that's a check. And
you'll you'll have to you'll have to
Well, now you've got kind of a lot of
stuff going on because you got a spear
and a shield. So, you'd have to have
some way to put those somewhere, Amos,
if you're going to my bag. Last time we
said we just had the labor check and it
was like Yeah, because last time you
were just like carrying him to the next
room. Like you were carrying him up the
shaft. Now you're like carrying him.
Carrying him. He would fit in your sack.
Her berber. He is pack four. Yeah. So I
just need to move one of these um pieces
of gold and just throw them in my bag.
Got an open spot. Saddock has a spot.
Feel like gold, please.
So in this All right. So in this large
So yes, now you can move him into your
inventory. Uh I don't have access. You
don't have it. Let me give you access to
it. We got a bunch of gold in with this
body. Curt, this is Kurt. Kurt's
body.
Um, control
my All right. So, you should be able to
just grab that. He's in my bag. All
right. So, now there is a body of a
young boy sloshing around in a pack full
of gold coins. Oh. Uh, for the record,
he is wrapped up in my cloak. Yes,
that's true. That is true. That's what's
keeping the the him from just sloshing
out and the coins from sticking to Yeah,
it's keeping everything together. Now,
there's him out. He's covered in gold.
Now, Iver's inventory is one that you
don't see every day.
I like He still keep on the charcoal and
the lint. His inventory is so random.
Well, the lint's in his pocket. Um, Oh,
that's right. That's That's true. The
charcoal in the bag. Yeah, this is
poculent. All right. Um well then, um no
no no no turn necessary because no
labor. You guys just re uh re split uh
re rejiggered your inventory. Although
now it looks like everybody is really
full. Oh yeah, we're trying to get out
of here now. Time to go back to town. I
think we found some valuable stuff. I'm
good. Do we Do we need checks in town
for stuff? Only if we want to do things.
Um, so when you go to town, you can
spend you if you have checks, you can
spend them outside of town before
entering to do recovery and that's the
only thing that you can use them for and
then you get to enter town. Um, and the
So if we have conditions when we go to
town, how do we get rid of them? So once
you're in town, if you have conditions,
you can do things like get uh time at
the inn. You can uh work on your, you
know, uh work out your anger. You can
say all everything in town is available.
It just all costs money. Gotcha. could
use probably a check or two myself,
right? But you could do town stuff for
your uh burden, right? As well. Yeah.
Yeah. So, when you're in town, for
example, Boothy, you could visit a
shrine and pray and remove your burden,
but it costs money. You have to donate
as well. Yeah. Everything costs money in
town. You can even do you can work on
your own personal stuff. You're like,
"Oh, I want to start working on making a
new bow or something like that." Cool.
Costs money. Everything costs money.
Okay. But we are at 850. So if you guys
do want to head back to town. Yes. So I
think the last thing we want to do is
relock. Yes. The dragon unpateton this
and relock. All right. So you're going
to head through the door and you're
going to head back to the uh to the the
the pit room. The blue archway. What
what you guys know is the pit room. Uh
the blue archway
room. Um where is the blue archway room?
Um okay. And you guys are back. And
right now the door is locked or uh
closed, but it is unlocked because of
you guys picked it up using the dragon
head. Mhm. So, you want to relock it?
Yeah. Okay. We don't want to just leave
it open for them. Now, of course, we
relock it. We're going to have to make
sure that we get out of the way quickly
so we don't get poison. Oh, well,
somebody who's making a criminal test is
definitely going to be potentially
suffering some potential things. And I'm
going to say, I'm not going to lie. I
will tell you straight up, if that's
Ryan or Laughing Outlaw, they're already
sick, so that would kill them. Yep.
Well, I I I will take uh I will go up
there and and relock it. I will stand
back and use my elven wise, be like,
"Yeah, you're not doing that right.
That's not the way the elves would do
that." All right, that's good.
I I'm going to stand back and go back to
that safe spot on.
Yeah, I have lockwise. And I'm like, h
so when that's the thing that makes you
poison. That's amazing. So you guys are
both sick. So you guys are both sick,
but you're both able to stand far away
and tell tell Tain what he needs to do.
All right. So the steps since I'm afraid
I can't receive help or I can't help.
You cannot give help, I think. Okay. All
right. Yeah, you can receive it. said by
skilled but like wises and stuff like
that and actually yeah wises is not um
help is not the same as aid right so
wises or what was it um um nature you
can use but you can't give help
everything else wise in nature
considered aid right
um it's a great
question I will just
um look it up
cuz that's how I've been doing it. I
haven't been doing any skill bases
because I've been afraid and I can't do
that.
It's been a been a minute for me, so
it's fine. I'll just take a look at the
old good book. Here we go. Okay. While
afraid, you cannot offer help, which is
not aid is not help, or use beginner's
luck. Um, but you can use nature if you
are don't have an unlearned skill. So,
you can't use beginner's luck, but you
can use nature. So, yes, you can aid
through help because basically when
you're helping, you're getting up close
and personal and risking yourself.
You're afraid. You're fine standing back
over here and being like, "No, no, do it
that way." So, uh, so Satakid, that's
how we got gassed the first time. So,
Satak and Urber, you guys are offering
aid.
And then, uh, Tane, uh, that's a
criminal test to you, buddy. OB 2. Got
it, man.
OB two. Yeah, it used to be OB three,
but they've disarmed this a couple
times. They're familiar with it. They're
familiar with it enough. Yeah, you guys
have picked this lock enough times. All
right. Now, is there
anything I can do to up I'm assuming
puzzle is too on the nose for this? This
is not a puzzle. Yeah, this is not This
is just a lock. Yeah. Um, let's see.
I've already used thoughtful. I don't
think I have anything else to aid myself
here. Uh, okay. So, I guess I'm just
going to roll.
Uh, okay. All right. So, so GM Scott,
Tain, mark a past for criminal and then
Saddak and Urber, if you haven't
already, mark a past for your wise
because you And now I'm going to GTFO as
fast as I can without falling in the
pit. Yeah. Would that have also help
been the same thing in the conflict as
well? Yep. Oh, cool. I did not do that.
If you ever if you ever aid somebody
with uh your wise and they pass, you
mark the pass. If they fail, you mark
the fail. Once you use a fate to when
you're doing it to reroll a failure or a
persona to reroll all your failures, you
want to mark those things cuz once you
mark all four, you can change the wise
or you can get a a mark another success.
That okay, I actually mine's full. My
elfwise is full. Oh, is your elf wise
full? Okay. Well, we'll deal with that.
We should have dealt with that
immediately, but we can deal with it at
the end of the session. It doesn't
really matter, but that's what I
thought. Figured we do what it Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. But you know, yes, that's
that's good for you.
Um, what were we doing? Oh, you made a
check. Criminal. Criminal succeed. And a
turn goes. So, your candle burns out.
Grind. Everybody becomes hungry and
thirsty.
Shield is still glowing. Shield is
glowing for the rest of the phase. Is
that correct, Booth? Yeah. So, as soon
as you camp, it ends. Just FYI. Or go
back to town. That's also a new phase.
It'll basically stay illuminated as long
as you are in this phase. But the candle
does go
out. I'm going to switch my bow out and
put my dagger back in my backpack.
Okay.
[Music]
If we camp, I can knock out all of our
hunger. Now, before we go, just FYI,
you're on the map. So that means you
have light um because of the the glowing
shield. You're on the GM Scott's Tain's
map. So now you can travel to anywhere
that is on your map
which includes which includes the circle
stones. Yeah. Go back
down to camp. What's that? Uh what's
that Matt? I was just saying do you guys
want to get out of the dungeon to camp
or do you want to camp in the dungeon?
Well, if you were to camp right here in
the dungeon, then you would be, you
know, you have to make a new camp check
and all this other stuff. Now, you do
have a camp in the dungeon that you
could go back to. That's where you
camped that one time when you guys were
in the web filled passages. You could
head back there to camp or you could go
upstairs and now you don't have a camp
outside, FYI. You know. Oh, okay. So,
we've created that camp. We can go back
and use it again. Correct. Because it's
on your map. We can we can free travel.
Correct. That webfield thing might be
good because nobody can come. the other
the other team doesn't know about it and
they can't come and [ __ ] with us. The
only downside, as far as we know, they
don't know. The only downside is fast
traveling works as long as there hasn't
been something that has uh you know uh
changed or tweaked or whatever. Um but
similarly, you now have the ancient tomb
on your map, too. You could leave this
room, go through the twisting hallways,
and make your way back to the room where
you fell in originally with the
skeletons. Yeah, cuz I want to go deal
with that right now.
We should be looking to get out of here.
Yeah, I I
I pretty much met everything. I'm good
to go. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, in that
case, you guys leave, head up the
stairs, you make your way through the um
uh the ancient crumbled stairway. You
make your way to the shaft of earth that
has the uh the other groups petons um
staggered into the the the wall. You
make your way quickly up them. uh having
made this traver traverse several times
and finally uh after three sessions you
guys emerge back into the sunlight
with more than just two silver to rub
together and with more than just two
silver to rub together and a dead body
in a bag. A dead body in a bag. Uh just
like real heroes uh because that's what
heroes do. Um now you are standing on
the top of the windswept ancient circle
of stone at top the ruins of Karan
Vanal. Um the wind whispers in the uh in
the uh in the east. It seems relatively
the same since you left down, of course.
But of course, you notice that your rope
that you had tied around this rope is
missing. Um so clearly someone or
something has been here, but um you look
around, someone stole our broken rope.
Yeah. Uh you don't see any signs of
anything else, but uh it is uh but
hunger fills your belly and uh you know,
now this is not a new area, by the way,
Bob. That's why you're not instincts not
triggering or anything like that. So I'm
Yeah, I'm exhausted anyway. So So the
one thing I could think of is now if we
if we make So I didn't want to be that
close to the pit if we if we if we if we
do make camp before we go back to town
because we get one
basically has one check, right? Yes, you
can make you can make check or camp
because has one check. But we could if
we make camp then the instinct happens
where uh you would cook food and GM
Scott would map. And then also if I
believe if that use that one check I
could get rid of all of our exhaustion
or all of our afraidness with a little
bit of merrymaking and a little bit of
booze and I we could boast and celebrate
our accomplishments and try and lift our
spirits. Yep. And remember too that's
more like healing, not recovery, which
is why it can go out of recovery order.
Although I think I think afraid is
everybody's first one anyway, so it
doesn't matter. But um that would that
would and that would get rid of
basically more than what one condition
for all of us. It's a lot more. That's
why I think we should. That's I think
it's a great
Okay. Well, the problem is you don't
have a camp. So you guys do need to
potentially find a camp first. Find a
camp up here on the surface. Yep. Find a
camp that's hidden. I don't want some
random monster coming and getting us.
Oh, that is also a possibility.
And thankfully, we don't have a lot of
checks, so we can have a lot of scouts,
a lot of people keeping watch. Yeah. So,
fine, right? So, if you take a look at
your uh survivor skill,
uh which is on
page survival list, sorry, which is on
page 175. Um, do you know how to make
the environment work for them? Making
camp factor the terrain f type near town
no ruins yes wilderness or caves two
dungeon three blasted wasteland four so
you are in the wilderness so this is
base ob two two to make a camp two you
are a small group of adventurers so it's
zero so plus zero so two plus zero then
you can add amenities if you want
shelter add one if you want a water
source add another one and if you want
concealment add another one you don't
need them so if you just want to find a
safe place where you guys can kind of
just be relatively comfortable make to
camp, have access to fire, then it's
just OB, it's just OB. If you want it to
be if you want to have good shelter like
from the weather and you know some
degree of protection, that's plus one.
If you want to have a water source,
that's another plus one. And if you want
to have it be concealed, that's another
plus one. Those are options. The
question for us
is us making camp right now, is that
going to be the end of the end of the
session or are we still going to have
more to do? I mean, it's nine o'clock. I
mean, we would probably either end it
there or depending on how long it takes,
we could make the trip back to town.
I mean, camping is tech, camping is
technically like a, you know, you're
spending, you know, at least a couple
hours maybe overnight or whatever like
that. We could end there. It's fine.
Yeah, we could start next time in town
with all your money and stuff like that.
But in terms of like getting back to
town, that's why I would like I know
some people had some goals and I would
probably, you know, allow for that.
That's just like because if we were
going to camp and then wake back up and
then go back, we wouldn't need the extra
like hidden stuff or all that jazz. I
don't think we need any of that anyway.
I think we just get some rest here.
Merry mate and yeah, the only thing is
they might be factors if in a in an
event role that correct. That is exactly
right. But Bob says, "Fuck it, we ball."
That's right. I mean, we just
feel good. All right. sing us a song
about about this amazing thing. So
wandering part way back to town and
making camp would be equivalent to
concealment at that point maybe and it
would cost us an extra OB, right?
Because we're trying to maybe not get
ambushed by ratmanmen as we're camping.
Correct. If you're in a concealed camp
and let's say somebody does a twist, I
might describe how you hear the, you
know, creatures skittering at the edges
of your camp but they can't find you. If
you don't have a concealed camp and you
twist, I might describe how they leap
upon you in the middle of the night and
slash your throat. Is this your checker
survivalist? Is this yours? Who's the
one making the check engineering?
I think you only have two. Well, at
least you have it. But we will majority
of us. Ah, there is only one skill that
helps survivalist.
Peasant. And we're afraid so we can't
help.
You're afraid. Everyone's afraid you
can't help. Anyways, I mean I I only
have a two here. So, this is going to
have to be you. Well, I maybe I can
invoke my nature. Um, because my nature
is hiding. You could persona to tap into
your nature. You can't use your nature
because you have survivalist. Correct.
Now, I do I do not have survivalist.
I have to pee. So, if I tapped into my
nature and not running, right, I would
have to you go against my nature.
Doesn't that cost something though?
I think if you fail tax the taxes if you
fail. I think don't call. Oh, so I don't
have to spend a fade or a persona or
anything.
Uh your nature to spend a persona to tap
into it. I Yeah. I think the problem
with yours is if you fail you and uh you
get taxed by the margin of how much you
were Yeah. minus. So you could lose a
lot of your nature as a result. I don't
really know for
All right. Well, I mean, all right. What
do we decide to do? I think I'm making
the roll because I know J Scott was
talking about maybe using his nature.
So, well, I was thinking about it, but
uh you'd roll more dice. I mean, that's
that's undeniable. Yeah, it would be
four dice that I could roll and you're
not going to get but I would have to go
against my nature. Correct. That is not
that is not that is not boasting or
demanding or whatever. So, that means
it's called So, it's the opposite of
running. Correct. It's the opposite of
running. So in that case, what would
happen, Jim Scott, is were you to fail
that check, your nature would become
taxed. Okay. But I
don't persona. Nope. You don't have to
do it. I'm afraid because he's afraid.
Dang it. Everyone's afraid. Yeah. I I
would say then Jim's got you rolling
more more dice than me. Yeah. But Bob,
you're not going to get better at it.
You're not going to get better at it if
you don't use it. You'll never get
better if you don't And you're not going
to get better at it if you don't fail at
it. I mean, yeah. I don't mind survival.
I actually don't even mind persona
pointing. I don't you know you need to
use more. I'll let you do it then. I'm
I'm also going to uh be nice GM. Okay.
And quickly take a look here. Write this
down. Well, Tain's not an issue, but
I'll take a look at
Coronal. Okay. So, Coronal is not an
issue.
Well, it's also unfortunate, but if you
could figure out a way because you're
going back to town. Yeah. If you could
figure out a way for people like Saddok
and Amos to spend a few more Persona and
Fate points, they would level up.
Yeah.
I not that it does a great deal for me,
but you get a new ability.
I can't afford my new ability.
Um,
that's a good point. So, I need to have
I need to spend how much fate and how
much persona and three of each and three
each. Yeah. I mean, it's gonna I have it
on paper. I just don't Which is I mean,
again, there's also value in just having
the resource to use it when it really
matters rather than just burning it. So,
I get it. Um, no, you you could take you
could take one. You could take militant,
but you could also take vow to the lords
of justice. You get to pick one. Booth.
I don't know that faint. I thought I
could
um Wraith brought my die from one to 10.
Uh anyways, just something to consider.
That's the only thing I was saying
because I know that uh a couple people
I've been looking for opportunities to
spend a month. Yeah. Well, remember
every time you help someone, you can
potentially spend it.
All right. So, you guys are okay me
doing they keep doing weird stuff that
peasants don't help with.
You wouldn't be able to help if you
weren't so afraid. Yeah, because you're
so scared. Hey, look. You you you you
you confronted a vast ancient spirit. I
mean, yeah, you were shook up. I mean, I
get it. And you were lying through your
teeth. That most of the most of the
encounter. It's funny. Everyone, they're
all like like half like each other. I'm
like I'm so like Yeah, I love you're
like you're like I love these guys.
Everyone else is just like yes, my brave
heroes. Wink wink nudge nudge. I
currently don't hate you all. So, I'm
gonna make this survivalist roll. Go for
it, buddy. Do you think I should channel
my nature, guys, to use a persona point
to get more dice?
I mean, the OB is at least two, right?
Yeah. And I only have two dice. So,
you're
not You just need a You just need So,
I'm going to say this. It's only within
your nature, Bob. Yeah. Of hiding if you
choose to make the camp concealed.
Yeah. Let's go. So, it's OB three. What
what about some of your What are some of
your uh your uh traits? The only one I
got is like born or they don't really
make sense here. Firstborn is more like
my elven stuff like maybe like history
or knowledge or being it's like a place
in the trees, right? Is that not Elvie?
I mean first is more like I'm a bad I'm
a badass elf, you know, like Okay. Could
have used firstborn during our argument
with the Yes, that would have been very
appropriate. But what about calm? No.
Seven versus three. All right, do it.
Oh, this looks terrible. Oh, I failed.
So, Mark, I'm stressing right there.
Mark a pass on survivalist there, Bob.
Now you have to fail it to go up to go
up. Yeah, there we go. So, what should
we do is next time we make camp, just
stack them. I want water. That's right.
That's You got it. that I want to build
an inn in the middle of Oh, the the
third book, the lore masters guide, does
have room rules for that for creating a
building up your camp into like a little
fortress. Nice. All right. All right.
So, I'm hungry. Um, well, hold on a sec.
So, I have I have chosen the uh you have
a check. I have decided you are not in
conflict or immediate peril. I have
chosen the camp type, which is uh
wilderness. Um, and then I have chosen
the camp danger area. You have
surveiled, which takes a
turn. Here we go. And um you have found
a camp and you're not cold camping. Um
amenities, blah blah blah. Conceal. Done
that. Um I'm assuming you're going to
keep a campfire going because you're
going to cook. All right. Now, do you
want to set a watch? One or more
characters must volunteer. Setting a
watch gives you plus one to the random
event roll of camp. Higher roll is
better. Lower roses bad. So, it's a 3d6
role. The setting a watch gives you plus
one regardless of how many people are
set to watch. If more than one character
is on watch, um the others may help the
test to avert disaster. Characters on
watch may not make recovery tests,
memorize spells, or purify their
immortal burden, but they may spend
checks to make other tests in camp like
forging for food or repairing armor. If
the result of the camp events is a
disaster, the watch may spend a party
check to avert the disaster. If
successful, the camp phase continues. If
it fails, the disaster ends the camp
phase.
Yeah, let's Yeah, I'll I'll stand and
watch. I can watch cuz the I only have
hungry, thirsty, and afraid. And if we
if we do succeed, then I hungry, thirsty
goes away. So, all right. So, Booth B.
So, Tane and Amos are on.
How I mean does it matter how much you
said how many I think we said that I was
going to spend Herb's uh thing after to
to to me make it's a party and but and
then I'm cooking so that happens no
matter what. Yeah. So I'll keep watching
too. All right. So using the survivalist
skills to find or make shelter for an
outdoor camp gets you plus one to the
camp events roll. So you get plus one.
If you have a site with concealment it's
a further plus one. So that's plus two.
If you have watch, it's plus one. So,
you get plus three. Having a having an
elven ranger in the party in the
wilderness adds plus one to the camp
events rule. So, you're at plus four.
Nice. All right. Uh, this is if it's a
dark camp, uh, then you can reduce the
danger penalty, but there your camp it
does not have dark. A previous camp
disaster gives you minus one. And I can
also give you another minus one if I
feel like it is warranted, which I have
not. All right. So, plus four. So, uh,
Bob, it's your camp. Roll 3d6 in chat.
All right.
Higher is better.
Hell yeah. 17. Almost off the money
rains from the sky. How much did we get
to this? Plus four. Yeah, I think we
plus four, I think. So, really? 18. Oh
[ __ ] A perfect roll. You find a you
find a cottage on the side of the road.
We talked about the site you pick is
perfectly sheltered from wind and
weather. Get a plus one dice to all
recovery roles from angry and exhausted
when camping in this area. But by the
way, that's going forward. This camp is
has that Scott has good.
Yeah, have an instinct to map. So now
that we've made camp, you are now
successfully in camp, which is in a
great place out of the weather. And you
get plus one dice to recover from angry
and exhausted when you're in this camp.
So, and we can if we if he succeeds in
this thing, we have instant travel to
person and this nice camp. Yep, that's
correct. Wow, that's correct. All right.
Well, camp is starting. So, instincts
trigger.
Here comes cgrapher. Uh, all right. So,
you're adding you're adding what? This
the other room and this camp. Is that
it? This room in this camp. That's it.
So yeah two things. It's it's only the
So this is a very low one
here. Uh so this is a small area one and
it's your personal area. So it's OB 2.
OB two. Perfect. Um can I get the the
dwarves aid with his engineering again?
And we're afraid. Would you like me to
remember? Oh, they're afraid. Yeah. I
can't do anything. can't do anything for
you. All
right. Uh, so I've got And I can't We're
outside so delving doesn't count. No.
Correct. Okay. Well, wises. Do you have
any wises? I got and um skewed
appraisal. No.
That needs a little bit a little bit of
work on that, man. A little bit of salt.
You stretch you stretched the metaphor
enough. He's not throwing shade. He's
throwing salt. I don't even have a I
don't think I even do that because it's
the Well, it's an instinct anyway. So,
yeah, that's not nature fact. Ah, okay.
So, yeah, I got three dice against OB 2.
This is going to be tough, guys. Go for
it. You got it. I believe in you. What
about your traits?
Nope. Can you reoll one persona or
something? I don't have persona. He
doesn't have persona. But the good news
is the good news is GM Scott, you
succeed, but you were made angry because
you're like, I just [ __ ] suck. Um,
now this counts as a this counts as a
failure for your ctography skill. Um,
but I'm giving you success with a
condition. So you two more successes and
I can bump up my character. So you
succeed, never, but you're but you're
frustrated by your continually problems
with your memory. It turns out like
being in a dungeon is a lot different
than being the, you know, growing up in
the stacks of the libraries in your
master's tower and it's like where where
is my intellect? It's failing me. So you
do pick. All right, Ryan. The fire is
blazing. All right. There's no wind so
it's not smoky. You know how when you go
camping it always [ __ ] seems to blow
back in your face. It's actually All
right. So, okay. So, uh, no matter where
you No. Yeah. You move to the other
side. I'm convinced it creates some sort
of like backflow draft or something. I
going to be me when it comes to that.
That's perfect. A cooking roll. Yep.
Modified. I'm going to spend the garlic.
Thank you, Herber, for the garlic. Do
you guys have Oh, you do still have some
fresh rations, don't you? I'm going to
use the fresh rations. All right. I am
also going to use my quick witted trait.
Okay. Uh, how does quick wit help you
with cooking? Uh, well, how about this?
Uh, uh, from the depths. Uh the other
one. No. Yeah, that's true. Remember cuz
it does say hidden depths could also
apply to your your hunger. That's right.
So that's what he's saying. K, shut up.
He's like he's like I'm cooking here.
And then I want to use some of these uh
points I've got. And now I I can I have
saltwise, but I also have nature in my
making. I really want to lift the
spirits here. My This is my goal as a
group to really We're all SC, you know,
I know I'm really going to I'm going to
ham it up. We're going to have a little
uh h halfling party outside the thing.
So that's why I would like to if I can
spend channel my p my uh nature. So it
sounds like you're trying to do more
than just create a meal. I'm Yeah, we're
this I mean we got this is a celebration
banquet. This is celebration. Yeah.
All right. So here's what I'm going to
do. If you can make So the ob No. So you
have fresh food which is one. It's small
group which is one. So that's going to
be two ob two. But if you make it ob
four. Okay. Okay. Not only will you cure
the groups hungry and thirsty, you'll
give everyone an additional plus two
dice to any recovery checks that they
make in this phase. Oh, but we don't Oh,
we just don't have the checks. We just
don't have a You don't have the checks.
All right, then. I won't take that. I
won't do that. But I will hit in depth.
Um, so then can I channel my nature or
or You can. I mean, you'll just really
succeed.
Yeah.
Um what are what what can I do with
these? Uh fates are sits uh use a wise
to learn from help. Yeah, fate's when
you help somebody and when you fail and
you can use your wise to you can spend
fate points to roll wisdom fails.
Yeah, I mean I really want to do it. So
I I I I'm going to You can also spend
Persona points, Ryan, just to give you
plus one die for each persona point that
you spend.
Yeah. Is there a Is there a down? But it
might it might make more sense to wait
till the merrymaking to do that, Ryan,
because that's going to be harder. All
right. All right. Oh, true. Okay, then.
Yeah, I'm just going to go ahead and do
it like this with the one. All right,
cool. All right, so one four and then
it's a four against OB two. Yep.
Uh 4 D is is this against my cook roll?
What's my cook at? Three. Oh, it's cuz
I'm sick. Yes.
And you have no taste buds. Andy sweated
it out. You made it. All right. Sadok
creates nice from a single thing of
rations. He's down to his last fresh
ration. Those rot, by the way, when you
go to town. Um, you managed to create a
filling meal for everyone in the party.
Everyone remove hungry and thirsty.
Awesome. And now you have one check.
Amos has one check or uh sorry, Berber
has one check which apparently he is
giving to Saddok. And with this meal and
in this sheltered camp away from the
wind and with a bo bag full of loot and
bodies, you guys decide to throw a grand
celebration. You guys finally didn't
completely suck. Um and and Saddak and
Sadak goes crazy with his merry making.
All right, so Berber spends the check.
Sedok, you are going to go ham on trying
to recover everyone from angry and
afraid. Yeah. Um and so that is going to
be uh OB four. And is it a plus one
because of the location? Uh plus is this
a recovery role? It's not a recovery. It
isn't a recovery role, but because it's
such a nice location, I'll give because
you guys aren't making roles. Ryan makes
one role. Correct. Um to to basically
try to join in and and help everybody
out. Does this start with my as a nature
role? It is a nature role. You're using
Mary making. Yeah. And then I have the
gear from the wine. Yes. Which goes
away. That uses my last thing of wine.
Yes. Uh for this kind of for this kind
of party, I'm going to need at least two
two drops of wine to be consumed. So I
got wine for you. Okay.
Uh I also have uh other dice from the
location. Correct.
And then I have
um I is OB four he said. Yeah. Can we
help? Uh you're all afraid
after this a really nice table for him
to put stuff on. I think the only way
you can do it would be to aid right with
the wise which
um so gear. Uh, and then is was there
any other things? Uh, well, this is
where you could channel your nature. Oh,
channel the nature. Okay. So, I didn't
know if I could because I was already
channeling the nature. Okay. It's it's
within.
Correct. Um, and then
uh I'm going to turn do that to one and
put total spend to two. I think I have
everything here. 9D verse OB 4. Yep. You
got it, man.
All
right. I hope a party's
good. Yeah.
All right. The halfling throws a [ __ ]
razor. You guys go ham and everybody
cure your angry and afraid. So,
everybody get rid of all your angry and
sick again. Um, after after the trying
tribulations of the past three sessions,
almost four or five days spent
underground. I think if I did all the
right thing, you guys have returned. You
have battled with uh you have battled
with rat creatures. You have fought the
undead. You have confronted an ancient
elven spirit and it was it believed in
potentially your worth. You're now
blessed or cursed uh with a gu from the
said spirit and you are heading back to
town. So, uh everybody heal heal of all
of that. And with that, your last camp
check is done. So, it is now time to go
back into the adventuring phase.
And I say that uh because you do need to
make a Pathfinder test to get back to
town.
So mine's three.
Can I
I haven't played Pathfinder in so long.
Apparently I'm going to be playing again
starting Fridays. So Well, it's
Starfinder, but yeah, it's close enough.
I don't know how that happened, Bob, but
I don't know either. It was like a joke
that turned into a real thing that that
suddenly got even more bizarre by the
minute. But I I quite enjoy uh like the
just the little bit of freshness that
the sci-fi stuff gives. It felt I I've
only played like once. Well, apparently
we're playing Starfinder plus battles to
best or um Elderon. Eld and my thing is
if a Smith campaign starts out fighting
in space, where the hell are you going
to fight the gods? Right. In in a small
dungeon underneath the tavern in the
middle of town. Um, but I I think I
think Smith was lobbying for that very
aggressively, Bob, because I think
that's what he wanted to play. And
that's okay. He's running the game. And
I think I think he I think he had ideas
for Northern Reaches and that like they
didn't manifest. So, I think he was just
like, I want to use these ideas. He's
going to take it out on you. Well, it's
just because I told the guys I said,
"Look, I want to run Fabul Ultima
because it's like one of the top games
on my list that I want to run." Like the
three games I want to run the most right
now. Well, actually, number one, the is
after my own group hyped me up again is
to run Legend of the Five Rings again
because my own group was hyping me up on
Friday about they're like, "That was the
best campaign of all time. I think about
it every night before I go to bed."
Like, this is seriously what they were
telling me at the at the session. Um,
this is also the same ones where they uh
much like uh uh Scum and Villamy, they
they they couldn't take the uh the
pressure of playing, right? No, it not
this one. I ended that was the first
one. I ended this one because it was
just too much for me with the channel
and all that other stuff at the time. We
were running that plus we were running
the APs and stuff. Um and I just said
guys and that's kind of what happened
today or I was going to run Fab
Ultimate. I was like guys I have so much
going on now and now that I've lost my
job and my dad died and all this other
stuff like I've just got so much stuff
that I handle. I said it'd be kind of
nice just to play and not to have and
have one less thing on my plate. And so
Smith said, "Yeah, you know, I'll play."
But like my list of things that I want
to play was not Legend of the Five
Rings, but it's at the top, but is
Avatar Legends, uh, The One Ring, Second
Edition, and then um um
um whatever we were just talking about,
uh, Fabul Ultima, uh, Fabial Ultima. And
so I I really do want to run Fabul
Ultima, but I just said it's not the
right time. That being said, if we're
going to play Pathfinder 2 or Starfinder
2, I really just want to play because I
do think that that is actually really
sweet. I think the mechanics are
awesome. All right. Can Karanas get you
back to town? Well, you're not afraid
anymore, so you guys can actually help.
Can I I would like to make a case. Yeah.
For the Pathfinder role. Okay. Aid with
the skill that is not on the list. Okay.
I
am Amos Sheep Scar of the local sheep
scars, the peasant seed family. Yes.
You know, these fields with their sheep.
That's how you do it, boy, boys and
girls. That's how you do it. That's how
you That's how you officially you That's
how you argue for your skill. Yes, Amos,
you can help with peasant.
Does scout help? And I would like to
mark use a fake point to mark a to mark
a uh Yeah, whether he passes or fails.
Yes, synergy. Yeah, Pathfinder is helped
by scout or cgrapher, which I will lend
my cgrapher skills, meager though they
be. Yes. And I also going to do the same
thing. Scouting, helping uh and using a
fate point. Got it. Yeah. When you use a
fate point to help, it's called synergy,
by the way. Synergize. Doesn't really
make a difference, but but that's what
it's called. I got two helps and one
synergy. I will synergize as well
because I have a fate point left that I
haven't spent. There you go. Two
synergy. I'm I'm doing a tooth on scout.
So, technically, you have four synergy,
Bob. Not Oh, it's all synergy. It's all
synergy. We're all We're all blowing
those big points. Yeah. So, don't forget
to Don't forget to be a success. Yeah.
Yeah. To see what he rolls. But all
right, Bob. It's OB. Oh, I'm two. Okay.
I think so. Let me double check. Synergy
does. Oh, and it's help, right? It's
just It just counts as help. It's just
for purposes of tracking. Seven. Seven.
Seven dice versus two. Got it. Okay. You
could. Well, no, cuz checks go way when
you go to town. It'll bother. Yeah. Oh,
no. Nope. I'm sorry. It's a short
journey and the route condition is well
traveled. So, it is three actually.
Okay. Here we go.
I've been rolling good today. There we
go. That's a path. Okay. So, everyone
who synergized, mark a pass on the skill
that on the skill you helped with. All
right. Awesome. I just leveled up on
scout. Sick. Nice. I'm one success away
from ctographer four. That's my first
peasant success. There you go. So, does
it immediately take up to three? I
believe it does. Um, so I I can triple
check that. I mean, we are at the end of
spend a weekend playing. No, the only
time you need to do that is um is the
only time you need to do that is when
you're at um um leveling up. If you if
you spend your points, it doesn't happen
until you get back to town. Um like if
you spent three and three, but you're
like in the middle of the dungeon, it
doesn't happen.
Um
advancing. Advancing. Did he make it? He
did. He did. So you can mark your
success in scout for three. It's a good
thing we all helped him.
Yeah, it was a little closer than I
thought it was going to be.
Um,
man, my my stats fill up a lot more when
I'm paying attention.
It's It's amazing how much more they
fill up when you play. Um, advancement
happens as advancement happens as soon
as the test requirements are fulfilled.
After rolling against an obstacle, after
a test in a conflict, or after earning a
test from practice. So, Ryan, yeah, you
uh remove all your passes and fails, and
you go to edit mode, and you up the
skill by one rank. All right.
And you guys arrive on the outskirts of
town. Now, chronologically speaking, I
think you guys get here before the other
party gets here. So, um, really? Yeah.
There was some stuff that Derek told me
about. The hell? What the hell are they
doing? Uh, you'll find out.
So, not watched any of the any of the V.
Yeah. I I don't want to because I don't
either. Derrick just started in passing
and I was like, when we're when we're
done, I'll watch them. Yeah. Um and so I
just need to roll our town event.
Um and we were supposed to um when we
did conflicts if we helped with a skill
that was supposed to go up if I helped
with a skill and I succeeded. No, only
if you spend a fate point. Gotcha.
That's why I wanted to double check. I
was like, "Okay, I think I did
everything right today." Um but I didn't
know. All right. For starters, there you
have you have no remaining checks, so
you don't have to worry about recovery
test. All uh fresh rations are
destroyed. Preserve rations stay, but
fresh rations are destroyed. I think you
only have a single fresh ration left. I
think Saddakok has the only fresh ration
left. So, that is uh I'll delete that
there. Sock is destroyed. It goes to the
dogs. We did some um good job figuring
out how much we needed. Uh then the game
master rolls for town events on the
appropriate town events table and
applies the res results. If there is no
disaster, then we enter town phase.
All right. So, this is a remote village.
It's not exactly a, you know, bustling
metropolis here. So, I will roll my
dice.
3d6. And we got
11. And I rolled a [ __ ] hero quest
die for the other D6. That's
great.
17. Huzzah.
Amos. It is. As you arrive, it is the
town is uh in the midst of some sort of
festival. It is a it is a festival for
the lord of sewing and the lady of
reaping. Offering a prayer at the shrine
and gaining the blessing of the
immortals gives you a plus one dice to
peasant and steward tests until the next
town phase. So if you go and offer a
blessing, you'll get plus one dice to
peasants and steward tests until the
next time you go to town. Um, but you
guys have now successfully entered town
and so we will and so there was no
disaster.
Spoiler alert, the other party entered
town and there was a disaster. Uh, so
yeah. So, but chronologically, I thought
you said they got here. Oh, so after
Yeah. Yeah. Their their their event roll
did not go so well as yours. Nice. So,
apparently this happened like the day or
two before. Um,
so we'll start next session in the town
phase. Um, sweet. But as we enter town
of success in coin, we finally see
regardless of our destiny. Here's to
mediocrity. There you go. Well, well
done. Well done. Well done. I don't
think we've been we've played mediocre.
I think our dice rows have made us
mediocre. Correct. There is some truth
to that. We are mediocre. Uh I do not
think we are mediocre. I think we are on
the precipice of something greater. We
have sworn a gate
to an ancient elven spirit. This is not
peasant [ __ ] This is our township. We
are adventurers. And since the last town
phase, you guys have been toll amroth.
So the ga does not affect you. So you're
you're clear there.
Um and then um real quick uh
before we do this
um uh
Once you have done all, so this is for
this is for Matt. So, if your wise has
all four checkboxes filled in, so you've
done all four, you've used it for a
success, a fail, a deeper understanding,
and of course, you can either change the
wise to a new one of your
choice, or you can take a beginner's
luck test towards opening up a new
skill, or you can take a skill
advancement, pass or fail at your
leisure, as long as it is somewhat
related to the wise. If you choose not
to change the wise, it remains and you
don't lose it in exchange for the test.
Once you've chosen your perk, resent all
your four marks and begin again. So, you
don't get another Wise? No, you only get
another Wise in the winner phase.
I don't know what phase that is. Yeah,
don't worry about it. Okay, cool. Um, I
can't help but feel that I have chosen
my wise very unwisely.
I'm going to keep elfwise because it's
actually turned out worked out really
well for us, right?
Well, as an example,
not like I'm trying to persuade you, you
could turn it into tall Amroth wise.
What's up? That's the name of the
dungeon that that's the name of the
dungeon going. Yeah.
I mean, that's not bad. So, like this is
how you can kind of like be like, "Oh,
you know, you've become more focused on
this. You've been, you know, reading the
the histories. You've been focusing on
them." And so now it's not generic
elves, it's just specific location like
Bob has elf home wise. You could have
tall amroth wise and then you could
pretty much use it for almost well not
everything but a lot of things but
that's up to you. You don't have to do
it. Um or or if you find that like
you're like I really want to be able to
help GM Scott with these [ __ ]
cgrapher checks, you could put in like
mapmaking wise or something like that or
you know you can change it to help what
the party needs. Wouldn't tell Amroth
wise benefit from that making because
we're in Yeah, probably. Yep, exactly.
There's a lot of uses there actually.
Well, and we're going to be messing
around here for a while. At least for
the foreseeable future. You have a gas.
Yeah, unless you want to get killed.
You're destined. So, I guess it's um how
do you say again? I could bring curse.
A good curse, but you might explode. I
put it in chat, Matt. Yeah,
Zadak's kind of excited. He's, you know,
you heard about all these brave hero
stories in in the tavern. He's And now
you're hanging it. Yeah.
All righty. Well, you guys uh we're at
the end of the session, so let us do our
um uh end of session stuff.
There it is. Okay. Uh let's start with
Bob. We're gonna start with earning fate
points uh or persona points. So we're
going to start with your belief. Bob,
tell everyone your belief. And did you
Yes. Yes. My belief is don't need
anyone's help, especially not the guy
from the Saturday's party, Bess. Um I
only did this one time when I went and
get my quiver. Yeah. Actually,
would you say you played against your
belief? Uh, most of today I did. So, if
you did, I mean, cuz didn't you didn't
you dramatically go up and put your arm
on her? Yeah. So, I did that. If you act
against your belief in a dramatic
fashion, if you make a decision in the
game that's counter to what you believe
in, and you let everyone know about
this, you earn a persona point instead
of a fate point. But then you have to
change your belief. Time to change it.
All right. I don't know what to change
it, too. We'll figure that out next
session. You can just delete it, but it
can't be the same. Now it's gone. Your
belief has changed and you earn a
persona point for that. All right,
Saddak, what was your belief? Uh, safety
before silver. I I campaigned
narratively, but mechanically and
achins. I don't think I think I also
acted against it. I swore I gave it.
Yes, you did. So, I I was I you took the
words right out of my mouth because I
was like, well, the only action that you
took that was really meaningful was
stepping up and engaging that you will
fight kill a dragon for this other
spirit. So you also gain a persona point
saddak but you also have to delete your
belief and change it because you have
changed what you thought about yourself
and about adventuring. Uh Tain, what was
your belief?
Okay. Well, to talk about my belief, I
have to remind you that I changed my
goal away from discovering the dagger
right before we discovered the dagger.
Correct.
I changed my belief away from I don't
trust these mofos right before I put my
arm around the guy. So my belief was I
believe the party needs to plan more
before they act, which again I did
narratively, but I don't think that
really ever was brought up mechanically.
I agree. And also, yes, you got hosed.
That's
But would that wouldn't that wouldn't
that also be acting against it? Because
we are not planning. This was about us
at all. Okay. You know what? Yeah,
because you guys just decided to go full
hog on this gay ass thing with knowing
very little about that. So, if anything,
I would say you acted against your
belief as well and you can guarantee.
That's fine. I'll change it back to I
don't trust these guys.
Uh, but again, when you change your
belief because you change it, you it
should be reflect the narrative and
reflect the fiction of what's going on.
Which is not to say that maybe you don't
trust them. I'm just saying that keep
that in mind. All right, Boothy, what
was your belief? That I am the defender
of the defenseless.
All right. I mean, and uh I am now the
front line against this dragon as well.
Yeah, that's right. So, you earn a fate
point. You definitely did not play
against your belief. Um and then Ber
Ling, what was your belief? Well, first
I got to say, you know, I'm sort of the
glue that holds this party together
because everybody seems to like me
nowadays. So, I mean, I don't know how
that work if that's anything, but it was
um I played into my belief cuz I was not
leaving this damn freaking dungeon
without the damn treasure. In fact, I
believe that you should I will not leave
the dungeon without Oh, you definitely
earned your fate point. Matt was like
Matt was like, "Can we can we can Can we
keep arguing with this ghost? I want to
get more treasure."
I really thought Matt was going to say
we should use the map to go fight those
skeletons in the tomb and get it. All
right. So, Matt, you're not with Not
with a stacking condition. All right.
Fair enough. Fair enough. Fair enough.
All right. Next is um your
goal. Karanolas, what was your goal? My
goal was get the party back to town.
Persona point. You achieved your goal.
Saddok, what was your goal?
Uh I want to impress my team with my
bravery.
Team. So the the one he talked about was
getting the the the blessing, the gist,
whatever it is. Yeah, I say that. He
walked up first and did it too. Other
than the elf cut in front of me. Yeah.
Well, see, I say he did. All right. I
mean, if your party agrees, Sadak, who
am I to disagree? Sadak, you earn a
persona point for accomplishing your
goal. Uh, Tame, what was your goal?
Uh, well, not the dagger, but when we
changed it, we changed it to explore the
dragon vault. Yeah. And you succeeded.
Yes. So, I believe we did. You did. So,
earn a persona point. Amos, I believe
yours was to get Kurt back to town.
Deliver the body of Kurt the Shepherd.
You did you did not specify that it
wasn't in a bag. So, you earn a fate
point because you made progress. He
still has to be given to his parents,
but you'll probably accomplish that next
time. And then, what was your goal? Find
some valuable treasure. Well, you
finally managed to succeed at that. So,
earn a persona point uh for that as
well. All right. Instinct. Did anyone
benefit from their instinct? Remember,
you can earn this even if you were
exhausted. In other words, you had to
have used your instinct. It had to have
succeeded and it had to have helped the
party. Cole Venture was too clean. I
don't know if mine helped. Uh uh Matt's
did because he found the the the head
chopper
trap. Her Berber did. That was a fail.
But he failed to success. Oh, he failed.
You have to have passed the chest. I
passed mine, but it was we just found
the ghost guy for earlier than we No,
you you saw the the You would have seen
the ghost guy regardless. You saw That's
what I'm saying. I don't think you saw
the treasure and the skeleton guardians.
So, I don't know if that helped us
though. It just it's just something that
happened. All right. I mean, I think you
did. I think that benefited us. We knew
exact We knew more about that room than
we would have had you not I mean, we
definitely knew there was treasure
there, but I don't I mean I mean Bob on
the I wouldn't you made a check. You
succeeded. It It gave the party
additional information. I wouldn't fight
it too much. Obviously, Tane, you
obviously succeeded there as well. So,
you get a fate point as well. Finally,
for benefiting from your instinct for
once. Uh Saddak, yours is still to keep
the party going. Uh a camp will always
prepare a heart meal. Yep. So,
definitely earn your fate there.
Um, did anybody offer a grim assessment
of their fate while staring down certain
death? This is strictly for role playing
in character. No, we stood in front of a
ancient Yeah, but it's got to be you got
to give a quip. You got to give a like a
a gallow humor. This is a unique torch.
I mean, the only thing I can think of
was that body in the bag, but that's You
know what? The body in the bag, Ber, you
get your fake point. trusted bag. All
right. Yeah. Being like I could being
like I could throw the body in a bag was
like that was topnotch. That was very
good. And and the thing you might not
have noticed, Derek, is that he shuffled
the gold out of the bag and put the
silver in there with the body so that
the gold wouldn't get dirty. All right.
Fair enough. Good stuff. All right.
Lastly, we weren't we weren't funny
enough this session. Wow. Yeah. Lastly,
um um we have the MVP and the team
worker. As a reminder, the MVP is the
person who made the critical role of the
session, earning the MVP title. And then
teamworker is the character who worked
the hardest to keep the group together,
keep them in good shape, uh going to the
person who despite the risks, who spent
their gear, sacrificed their conditions,
and sacrificed their goals if it meant
helping their companions. They same
person cannot earn both. Uh my vote is
for MVP for GM Scott for their
photographer check. And then my
workhorse would be um let's just do MVP
first. MVP would be Jim Scott. Anybody
else dis disagree? I think MVP would be
Ryan for the salt comment.
Well, usually the MVP is the person
making the role. Yeah. Right. Like it's
the it's like that the one big role. I
think that that our position I have my
belief so much better in Tal Arath
because of that map. Yep. I can't think
of a I don't know who it was. Mine I
think that I mine is because I I might
be Derek. I think the critical role of
the night was Ber's maneuver against the
ghost. No, it was No, it was a faint
faint. That's right. Yeah, it was the
faint. It took the faint it took him
from seven to two. That was huge. Yes.
So I actually my vote actually is for
Berber because yeah that faint changed
the whole dynamic of that conflict and
put that put the ghost on the back foot
like from the beginning and that's
that's the only reason we got the stacks
of gold. Correct. All right. Well then
I'll give it I'll I'll go with that one.
So that was actually I think a huge
role. So Ber I I I I'm going to I'm
going to I'm
But you didn't make the role that like
listen the leader you'd be a terrible
manager.
Yes, but who hired that person that did
a great job on that? I I mean that's
good management material. Well, I mean I
have to say Dennis picked the Dennis
picked a great set really well. It was a
very nice little array there. I I now
granted you could totally argue that
that might be a more of a teamworker
thing, but I think the character made
the critical role. So gain another
persona point. Oh, sick. Thank you. And
then teamworker. So this is the person,
the workhorse, the person who just kept
making all the roles that kept everybody
together, who sacrificed for the party,
who, you know, uh, took the hits, lost
their equipment, gained conditions, you
know, all all in the name of of the
party. So, and it can't be Herbert. And
it cannot be. Yeah. Right. I actually
gave it to him because of he gave me the
check that got us the ability to even do
all that stuff. Yeah. But also Ryan for
taking one check and curing like seven
conditions. That's what I saw. You cured
10 conditions in one check. 100%. Yeah,
the teamwork was definitely Brian this
time. And this is also where the the
little maybe the need a little saltwise
thing, you know, was a good idea, you
know, like Yeah, you were on fire
tonight. You were helping a lot too with
just your other just random riddle
checks and stuff like that. I think you
you every role you were in. You were I
felt like you were in almost every role.
I agree with with good users. You can't
beat the little hype man jumping around.
Yeah. Hype man Saddak who then threw who
who then threw a pick, you know, a a
massive party at the camp. Um, I
appreciate it. All right, so persona
point for Ryan. All
right, so that is going to end uh
session number three. We'll start with
town phase. Um, Saddok is at three and
two, Spence. So close. I was going to
ask, is there something I could do
before town?
You know what? Just because we have a
shortened thing, I will let you if you
want. You could just burn a persona
point for nothing. Uh, and then get your
three. That because I like to do that,
too. Uh, are you in the same spot?
Same spot. All right. Anybody who wants
to just literally throw away a persona
point can do so and that will level you
guys up if it if it will level you up.
Only one. You three and three, right?
That's You need three and three. Okay,
that's all I did. But cool. But only
one. So, as I say, if you give me a
person point, I will burn all three of
my three points.
All right. So, that also Do we clear all
the dots on the traits right now? Yes.
Uh, keep checks, but you don't have any
checks, but yes, all your traits reset
as well for the next session. Um, so
they're all clear. Um, and you can use
your traits in town and stuff like that
if you want to, but you know, you might
even go back adventuring at the end of
the next session. Town phase doesn't
necessarily have to take the whole
session. Depends on how much. But we
can't earn checks in town, though. Uh,
maybe. Or could we? You might be able
to. I'm not sure. I know you can't earn
checks in camp, but you might be able to
in town. I'm not sure. Um, so for the
characters who leveled up, um, we can
deal with that, uh, next time, but
basically, uh, your character becomes
level two. Um, and then based off of
your, uh, race or class or whatever you
are, uh, you will choose a new, uh, one
of the two abilities for your level. So,
for example, if you are Bob the Ranger,
you can choose to either become get the
essence of the earth and he gets a
permanent plus one die to recover from
exhaustion or he can choose born under
the silver stars and gaining a permanent
plus one dice to all pathfinder,
navigator, and sailor tests. H, so
leveling up is not like, you know, oh, I
gained 55 more hit points and all this
other stuff and blah blah bl 10 plus
count. Yeah. Yeah. not not not so much
there. But um you also eventually at
certain levels you get uh at level three
you earn your creed which is another way
to earn persona and fate points.
So all right and then just because I
didn't want to um disturb during the
game uh that list of spells in the book
the only one I got was wizards aegis. Um
I a chance to write down the other ones.
Uh, if you hover over the book Oh, okay.
Yeah, I tried double clicking it. Silly
me. Yeah, if you hover over the book, it
has all the spells. Okay, cool. Thank
you. Yeah, Atheric appendage is, I
think, like a telekinetic like Yeah,
hand. Uh, mage hand basically. Athereal
premonition is kind of like an augury.
Uh, wizard's aegist lets you pull out
Doctor Strange uh circles that you can
fight with. And then Destiny of Heroes
is a level two spell. So, uh, but
Destiny of Heroes is a free action spell
that increases the might of everyone in
the party by one. Wow. Okay. So, it
would turn you guys into might four. So,
how do you get might and stuff anyways?
That's it. When you How do you level up?
Uh, if you level up near the end of the
game, you get per but most of the way
you get might from magical items and
spells. Like the way that you would
fight like a dragon is by like people
like Jim Scott casting a destiny of hero
spell and having a powerful uh you know
whatever you know dagger of bone dragon
bone. Uh spoiler alert the dragon bone
dagger gives you plus one might. Um
uh uh so uh I have a question. Yeah. Uh
if you write the
recap, you get to remove a condition.
Yes. But it can't be order. But it can't
be.
I was like, I'm like, I'm going to go
home and I'm going to write I'm going
start drafting it up. I'm going to do it
in character in in the tavern and
recounting our tales.
Um, darn. Yeah. Alleviate one condition
except injured or sick.
There's no there's no easy way. There's
no easy way out. There's no shortcut
home. All right. How do we get rid of
sickening in town? You can go to sicken.
You can try to uh you can spend money to
go to see a healer. You can try to um
sweat out the fever and just try to like
heal from it naturally. Um blah blah
blah blah blah. There's a couple
different ways. Cool. You know, with the
money, I mean, one of the main decisions
that you guys are going to have to make,
I mean, you're at a remote village, so
your choices are somewhat limited. Uh is
like where do you want to stay? Uh
certain places give you certain places
give you bonuses to recovery. Certain
places give you automatic free recovery
from like exhaustion and stuff like
that. So, and I believe that as part of
our gay, we were supposed to spend our
money on prostitutes. Uh, there was no
the the the ghostly said something about
prostitutes and money. Yeah, there was
there was a I think it was a little
vague in that respect, but uh he said he
would give us the dagger so we could
trade it for one night with a
prostitute. Actually, you know what? I'm
I'm I'm behind the uh or I'm uh I'm
[ __ ] up
here. Uh where is it?
There we
go. All
right. All right. There we go. All
right. You guys are in town.
It was cool to watch it literally
unfold. Some of the other man. So, uh
yeah. So, welcome welcome to the remote
village of of Fair Hill. Um, and uh,
here you will find uh, it's a simple
town with not a lot of authoring. You
probably won't be able to buy any plate
armor here, but you know, um, you might
be able to buy some simpler weapons.
Probably nothing like a crossbow or
anything like that, but some simpler
weapons, maybe some uh, armor, shields
if you've lost them, maybe a helmet or
something like that, but it is a small
town. It has somewhat limited what
options it has available to you. But you
should be able to find some things here
to spend your money. And certainly, this
is not the uh, Crossroads town that we
just set off from. No, this is the town
that's just right this is the town
that's just like right nearby the
dungeon. This is like where the peasants
families are from, where Booth be
so-called uh peasant people are from and
whatever. Um but no. Yeah, of the Fair
Hill sheep's cars. Now, to be clear, you
guys could stay here and then at the
next session after you're done, you
could travel to the crossroads town and
you know where you know basically which
is where like Saddak's family's from I
think is right, right? Yeah, that's what
I was Yeah. But would that be considered
a second town session? Yes. Yeah. And
then and then we would all die. No. No.
No. No. You would just gain conditions.
We would we would be hungry until we
went back into the dungeon. Correct.
Correct. Correct. So um yeah, I was
going to ask about that. Yeah. Does
standing outside on top the
um the the pillars or whatever the white
pillars, does that count as visiting? Um
or do we need to go into the dungeon? I
mean, you just have to go to the
dungeon. I mean, but I mean, to be fair,
I mean, I got the map. The Gaes is uh
the Gaes is not easily fooled. If you
like step foot in the dungeon and leave,
that does not uh reset the Gaes. Like,
you have to like make meaningful
progress towards, you know, finding the
harp and trying to actually go into the
dungeon. Um the Gaas is the Gaas is not
to be defeated by by pnicity rulesing.
Um the spirit is more powerful than
that. But uh you know basically it's you
have to go do a proper adventuring phase
in the dungeon before your next town
phase otherwise the conditions will
start to stack up and because of their
curse they don't just go you know it's a
hunger and thirst that you cannot fill
right no matter how much you eat no
matter how much you think. So you can't
get rid of that condition until you go
back to the
dungeon. All right awesome I'm going to
stop the recording. Uh if you're
following along at home uh thank you
again for joining us here. Uh we had a
little bit of a delay but um we are
going to try to figure out here uh or
normally this group plays every other uh
the second the first and third Sundays
of every month. The third Sunday of this
month is the 20th which is uh Easter. So
we won't be playing but maybe we can
figure out a time that these guys can
make up the session or we can get back
to it. But uh you know at some point too
guys I I would love to do one of these
live uh you know get get chat in there
and you know have people live live
tweeting live tweeting your guys' play.
Um, as long as there's no wheel of pain.
Yeah. No, not yet. Although a wheel of
pain in the storage would be [ __ ]
sick.
Oh, no. I'd be in if No, no, no, no, no.
But think about it. Think about it. The
wheel of pain, right? Give them random
conditions, whatever. Give. But then
like people could tip to give you
persona fate. Okay. Check, you know.
Yeah.
I mean, that's way better.
Look, I'm I'm not working anymore, okay?
The the channel needs big money somehow.
I need I need that I need that I need
that wheel of pain, wheel of destiny
money like we were getting back at the
end of Rise of the Room Lord. Those are
some good those are still the largest
streams that we've ever had in terms of
of money made. So, uh Pathfinder 2 was
very good for us for that month or two.
Um turns out just giving people the
ability to to randomly [ __ ] on or
manipulate your game for cash was the
key to success all along. I mean, think
about how much money Critical Role would
make if people could like tip to change
the game. Oh, wow.
Tip it in the front of the player. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, we're we're we're a small
nobody, you know. Imagine what they
could do. All right. Um, but any case,
stay tuned. We're we have more games
coming. And of course, um uh with the
the change in my employment status, the
nature of this channel might change up a
little bit. We might be doing some
different streams, some more streams,
you know, trying to maybe do some stuff
uh more middle of the day. Maybe uh I
might I might uh stream some video games
over on Twitch and Simocast on YouTube
and you guys can watch me play Final
Fantasy, the original Final Fantasy um
and some other stuff that we've been
talking about doing for a while. And
I've just hadn't had the time, both
because my life was in shambles, but
also, you know, I had a 9 to5. Um and
now I don't have one of those. Uh and my
life is slowly recovering from the
other, although potentially reshambled
by not having a job, but we'll see. Um
so that's going to do it for me. Thanks
to Bob, Ryan, Scott, Dennis, and Matt
for joining. And uh we'll see you guys
next time on Nice. The last call. Nice.
Ryan roll, guys.
