Yes, sir. All right, everybody. Welcome
back to the Sunday crew as we pick up
where we left off last time. Now, of
course, we're going to get into a
prologue here in a minute. And um I
don't remember who gave it last time,
but it probably wasn't uh GM Scott, but
GM Scott is not really a qualifier to do
the prologue because GM Scott was not
here.
Amos, you I think I was there. I just
didn't take any damage. Yeah, he was
there. Oh, you were there. We were all
there. I cast one of us was there. I
cast plus one size on uh on Booth B
before he cast his spell. And never
mind. I forgot about that. Okay, great.
Well, uh in that case, I don't have any
conditions. I'm still fresh. Yeah. All
right, I got it. Uh in that case,
anybody could give the prologue. I don't
remember who gave it last time, but uh
you gave it last time. Oh, you're Oh,
you're doing it. Okay. Um I was So, he
needs he needs the most help. Really?
No. Any volunteer eyes bleeding? Yeah.
Uh All right. Well, then why don't you
go ahead and get us started off, Dennis?
And then once when the prologue is
complete, we will do our uh uh updating
of beliefs, instincts, and goals. You
guys can also then of course strategize
uh what is it you want to do this
session and we can uh we can figure out
where we're going with this. All right,
Dennis, take it away. Well, uh, we
returned to the ruins of Tal Amaroth,
uh, in search of
Euphius, the harp of the grave, so that
we could prove our worth to the spectral
undead elf and earn the dagger which is
needed to kill the sleeping dragon
sorcerer.
Uh, you should get you should get the
bonus just for that. You already know
more about this campaign than everyone
else. Uh,
I think you should say the name. I'm not
sure about the dragon sorcerers name. I
think it was mentioned, but I couldn't
spell it. It was mentioned. It was
mentioned, but yes, that's fine. Uh, we
dithered as to what our course of action
would be, and I, uh, convinced the party
to head down into the ancient tomb
filled with sarcophagi to face the
undead guardians that were there. Uh, we
descended the well and found that the
undead had already been dispatched
apparently by an elven ranger better
than ours who somehow easy mode Saturday
cheated their way into winning this
encounter.
Uh, I was there. I can confirm it went
just like that. I I figured as much.
Uh, we examined some runes in that rune
room
and determined that the undead guardians
were meant to prevent an ancient evil
from being unbound.
The
bands, the golden bands that the undead
were wearing were keys to uh,
sealing this demonic entity.
uh and are needed to uh aid in the
performing of a ritual to receal
the evil.
Uh also sacrifices can be made if anyone
is still willing to do that. Again, I
cannot do the sacrifice myself. I cannot
be sacrifices. I have to do the ritual.
Uh,
we then returned to our camp to refresh.
Uh,
Karanas got bored and started poking
around the ruins for no apparent reason
and discovered a relic crown, the crown
of the lords of law,
which uh was passed off to Amos as it
gives him a another relic with which to
cast magic
that a uh anti-demon
kind of turn demon kind of spell. How
convenient. Okay. Yes, we might be
facing demons at some point.
Uh, we turned Tyler Amaroth into the
twisting hallways,
uh,
and found a secret door that led into a
golem crafting room, uh, which had a
stone golem activate within it. Uh,
nearly pummeled Karan lost to death. He
nimblely escaped.
And then we volunteered Saddok to go in,
the halfling rogue, to burglize the room
after magically determining that there
was some kind of
magic, a glow in a hidden uh
compartment in the room. Uh, Saddak was
able to sneak past the golem, retrieve,
several stacks of golden coins,
and a as yet unidentified glowing
powder.
Uh we then continued our explorations
and came to a door of much confusion
uh marked with the
uh
carved upon the door voices and song.
We spent a unfortunate amount of time
trying to decide determine if this was a
trap or not. Uh it was not. Uh we opened
the door without any event
uh and found a
uh large chamber filled with this big
obsidian orb and sl seven pillars and
two hallways leading off of it. Uh music
filling the air. Kamas in a
quite clever move began singing an
ancient elven song of the dead. uh and
the music accompanied him specifically
down one particular hallway
which we
uh traversed and at the end was the
glowing harp of the dead hovering in
midair playing this music.
Karnless continued his song
going down the hallway. A a hallway uh
that we uh suspiciously did not
make any note of the number of corpses
lying in it.
It was all fine. No problems there.
Kronless retrieves the harp and the
various
corpses in the room animate
into
a a horde of skeletal guardians.
Actually, I think they were zombies.
Were they zombies? Okay, zombies.
Arg. So, Karanas has the harp at the end
of the hallway. Between him and us are
eight zombies.
Yeah, zombies. And Amos goes supernova.
accurate and calls upon the thousand
thousand voices of the lords of life and
death
targeting was no six zombies something
like that almost all of them yeah uh I
targeted four uh whopping roll eight
successes needed eight successes made uh
obliterate four of the zombies and
reduce the other two to hand wavium
correct
Uh the power of the spell reduced the
eight zombies into pillars piles of salt
which we then collected.
Uh
and after the amazing roll of eight
successes on my casting role, I failed
with zero successes on four difficulty
four conditions. Correct. And
immediately got uh hungry, thirsty,
angry, afraid, and exhausted. Right.
And the only reason hungry and thirsty
isn't there is because you drank
something immediately or something,
right? Uh sadly handed me a sandwich
after I had finished right exploding
and that was enough to put me towards
the second stage which is the bleeding
of the eyes and ears.
Uh continually shaking and
currently exhausted, afraid and angry.
And so your burden is
your order is uh and your burden is
what? Good question. Your order is what?
One, two,
right? My
is your limit is four. Got it. My is
one. Yeah. Okay. Got it. So you're up
for four burden. So yeah. So Amos is at
four burden and has three conditions. So
pretty pretty tough. Um and Tain your
memory palace is empty.
That's correct. I Well, no. I uh Oh, you
used a scroll. I I cast straight out of
the book. Oh, you cast straight out of
the book. Yeah. Yeah. Got it. Got it.
Okay, great. He uh increased my mic by
one so I could target the fourth
skeleton. Got it. Um also just quick
scan. So obviously the dwarf is not here
today, so he'll kind of fade into the
background and wave him. Oh, and I and I
think Pyoria was the one that unlocked
the dragon magic. Uh Poria is the name
of the sorcerer. Very good job, Daniel.
So, Booth, uh, in recovery order, you
can recover a condition. So, that would
be, uh, the an uh, angry condition. So,
you can go ahead and knock that one off.
I thought you were going to tell him
because he said skeletons instead of
zombies that his account was not your
prologue does not meet my criteria. Um,
and therefore, you are now hungry and
thirsty, right? Um,
by the way, I I actually haven't updated
it yet, but just as a note for people at
home, um, uh, Amos. Oh, Amos, you are
still level one. Yep. Oh, okay. Uh, I
did not accept the uh hand wavium
cheating role that the others did. Got
it. Got it. Okay, got it. Good to know.
Or I am a man of honor. Trying to learn
how to play torch bear here. Leveling up
is part of learning. Um, so
we've got a party status of Coronal is
at one check, has one check. Caralos is
the only person in the party with a
check. So you do have one check. Uh,
Karanos is currently sitting on two fate
and three persona points, but he is
angry. Saddok has a whopping six fate,
three persona points, no conditions.
Looking very nice. Tain also sitting
with no conditions, has two fate, but it
tapped out of his persona. And then
Boothby while sitting on five fate three
persona does have a bunch of burden and
two nasty conditions. As a reminder,
being afraid means that uh he will not
be able to uh uh help uh or use
beginner's luck. And being exhausted
gives uh as long as anyone's in the
party exhausted minus one disposition
any conflict and cannot use his instinct
for free. Whereas Karanolas who is angry
cannot use wises or traits against for
himself beneficially. He's too angry to
see straight uh and help out with his
knowledge. And we are currently sitting
where we left off, which was in the
adventuring phase. We just ended because
we kind of went a little late. Mhm. Um
we're in the one of the two hallways or
one of the two chambers or aloves off of
that uh strange ritual chamber. This is
the hallway where the floating harp
euphonius was found and the undead came
to life. And there's an important thing
to note also from our prologue.
The ritual to seal the demon had to be
performed in five phases
or it would be loose and we don't know
how many have been used. Yeah.
Um Coronal uh took the harp, currently
possesses the harp, and uh we ended
there at uh at three turns of the grind.
Um the uh the conflict basically taking
uh one turn and here we are. So we know
at least we used two. I wrote down two
of five of the phases. Yeah. Yeah. So
I'm going to go ahead and remove
now. Uber had a torch but uh decides to
head off. So it is currently dark. So I
assume somebody else is going to want to
light a I'm going to strike one. Uh but
we need need to then do some accounting
here cuz there's some uh problems. So,
I'm actually noticing uh do I click it?
How do I uh So, you click your torch and
then you use the the light torch macro.
I'm not So, I is left click. Left click.
Left click the torch to highlight it.
Yeah, I'm doing that. Then top left and
then top. Okay. I'm looking at the wrong
place. Okay. Uh it's got light torch.
There you go. All right. Cool. And I
gave you a torch countdown there. Timer.
Did we figure out what this harp does? I
can't remember. So, hold on a sec. So,
what that means that you as a torch, you
guys have two bright squares and two dim
squares. Obviously, Sadok is in one of
the bright squares cuz he has the torch.
Um, and then you guys can figure out
who's in those squares. Otherwise, I'm
also going to move the harp down into
Bob's slots. Um, so at the very least,
you know, obviously right now we can put
people in there. But, um, so yeah. So,
remember that in the case of a situation
where you guys get into a conflict or
something like that. Um, okay. So,
I have a problem. I don't know where
who's carrying the nice uh time time
traveling dust. I don't see it on
anyone's inventory and I don't know if
it was just a oversight. We certainly
walked away with it and I just don't
know where it is. So it is currently in
on your belt pouch. So do you see that
you have the one belt pouch uh Ryan that
has the three of three over it?
Uh oh. You probably can't see that.
That's why.
All right.
Oh, no. It says visible to everybody.
Yeah, you're you're Yeah, I see undead
salt, but I think he's talking about the
golem glowing arcane dust. Correct.
Here, I'll put turn the name. Oh, that's
what I didn't see. There we go.
You see it now? Oh, so that was Okay.
So, that So, that's mysterious pouch.
Yeah, that's the that's the thing with
the mysterious dust that you found
inside of it. It is which it's
essentially a belt pouch filled with
three units of the pouch of the dust.
Right. So, I don't have this. So, with
if I have a tinder box and then the
sling where it is, I don't have
inventory for the undead salt. You do?
Uh oh, no, you don't. It's pack one.
Correct. No, you could put in your
backpack. You have space for it there.
Right. Well, there's that's my next
thing. Um
I need to ditch this. And then now I'm
having we have a problem here. I need an
open hand in case we get into a
conflict. Oh, right. Well, you can
always throw the torch on the floor.
That's never gone bad before. Or you can
trap your smoke sack. Uh so, I'm going
to drop my water. my water skin. I could
cast light and have open wounds appear
on myself.
And now question. I have this small
sack. The small sack, can it carry
anything when it's in my when it's in my
bag? Yeah, it's called bags within bags.
It actually becomes net negative. So if
your bag has two things in it, it takes
up three slots in your back in your
backpack. That's what I thought. All
right. So, uh,
now I just need to, um, figure out
what to do with this. Can someone drop
some salt here? I don't know if we need
a a million doses.
He's been replaced by doublegangers.
Yeah, just put the put the salt into the
the board so that uh people at home can
see it. Yeah, I see it. Yeah. So, I just
need to get I need to offload this uh
sack. All right. Well, while Ryan is
also thinking about inventory
accounting, um you guys should
strategize about your goals for the
session and then write your goals. And
if and if your and if your beliefs or
instincts need to be updated or want,
you know, reflecting in the fiction and
what's been happening, uh, please go
ahead and do that as well. My goal needs
to be updated for sure, guys, cuz it was
about getting the necklace off the
skeleton, which is no longer a thing,
and we obviously got the harp, which
progresses our goals pretty far along.
My goal is going to be to reseal
the demon of the ancient world away.
Okay. I think uh I I had a goal way back
when um and then I changed it two
minutes before you accomplish and so I
think I'm going to go back to that old
goal of uh acquiring that dagger right
now. This is why I say strategize
because you know to to it's going to be
probably potentially difficult to do you
know demon sealing and dagger acquiring
in the same session. Just FYI. Okay. Uh,
so bringing the harp. Bringing the harp
could be someone's goal, right? To the
lady or to the uh ghost spirit. That's
probably the dagger.
Uh, sounds so that that sounds like
focus. Well, the s portal that's
probably doing that while also returning
the thing is probably a lot. So, um,
Luffy, you you uh, Amos, you detect a
a strange
feeling. Uh oh, here comes the PvP. As
if considering my conditions. Yeah. No.
Well, no. Actually, no. It's like it's
almost like because you're in such pain
and such racked with such visions, you
you feel now uh a great distance as if
the ritual the the energy binding the
ritual has become much weaker. as if the
jeweled torqus that were so essential to
the ritual had been taken hundreds of
miles away. Oh no.
Perhaps literally on the other side of
the continent. What if what if your goal
could be to tell tell the elven spirit
about the about the ritual failing?
Yeah, guess what? Your uh your chosen
people just destroyed your ritual. No,
you did say that you could seal it. You
thought without him. Yes. It would just
cost our lives. No, no, no. It's just
it's harder. If you do sacrifice
yourselves, it's easier. I mean, yeah, I
think Er might sacrifice himself. Yeah.
Yeah. One one person. Where'd he go?
Where did Hey, where did he go? I think
he's prepping himself for the ritual.
Hold on. Ber
you guys start talking about he start he
just gnomes off the screen.
now that now that we're all his friend,
right, he would want to do this.
Um, the reason I say that is obviously
Amos, if it is your goal and knowing
that that goal is not uh as easy if we
can't get these uh torqus um then are
you going to be able to do it? And if
so, then we should try to align our
goals maybe to make sure this happens or
figure out how we're going to do go
about this. Uh did you not see what I
have done already? The miracles I have
wrought. I have. It's incredible.
Oh to remind uh those things going
your your you you would ask if you
remember what your harp does. It lets
you understand the the at least
understand the undead. Yeah, you can you
can they were saying uh so I will say
this
um the main thing
uh well among its many powers the main
thing that the harp does is it allows
you to communicate uh with the undead
but it also increases your precedence
by three of
when with respect to dealing with the
undead. Okay,
that's huge. So now I don't So I don't
know if you guys remember what
precedence is and how that works. Um,
but it's adventur social might. It is
social might. Yes, correct. As
adventurers, we're garbage. Right. As
adventurers, you have precedence zero.
But Bob, while wielding the harp, has
precedence three when dealing with
undead,
which amongst other things, will allow
you to engage in certain types of
conflicts
that you weren't able to engage in
before, such as a convince conflict
with a spirit.
Yeah. So now you actually possess an
item which mechanically allows you to
convince that spirit to give you the
drag, the dagger. Well, and we have the
harp, which is what I'm saying. Yeah, he
asked for that anyway. True. True. But
I'm saying that, you know, now you can
actually general. Yeah.
So, um, mechanics-wise,
if we were to just go straight to,
assuming there isn't a change in the
dungeon, we can, you know, go straight
to, uh, uh, well, from right here. No,
cuz you're not on the map. That's right.
We're not on the map yet.
We'd have to move a couple of spaces,
which means a couple of dungeeering
checks, potentially some checks, and
that also will mean some unless we want
to camp here. Unless you want to camp
here and I can update the map, then we
can teleport even back to town if we
wanted to. That is, but we can't do
that. Well, no, we've been in the
dungeon, so the GS won't hurt us, right?
You could return to town cuz the town is
on your map.
Get rid of some of this gold. Yes, town
is on my map. I updated it last time.
Now, the the thing about going back to
town
is the phases, right? Is the what? The
phase. The phase. But if Yeah. And if we
if we don't camp now, it's going to take
us two phases just to get out of here,
right? And
was there a lot that we needed in town?
Like we were running on things that we
couldn't buy anything other than just
the starting kind of gear.
So, what what do we want to spend this
money on? Well, if I go back to town, I
could be level two,
but
not like it doubles my hit points or
anything, right? Um, but I just think we
don't need to. I'm kind of with Amos on
that. I don't know if we need to. It's
just it's just weighing us down the
gold. Yeah. Well, but that's the thing
is you you could theoretically, you
know, get rid of it and convert it into
something that's maybe more useful.
But yes, it is a remote village, so it
is not exactly the most uh thrilling
thing. Now, this doesn't help you
because you can't teleport there
automatically, but you could make a you
could try to get to say the busy
crosswords town, which is where Saddak
is from. Uh and that's going to
obviously have more uh of a market
available to you. You might be able to
get better weapons, chain mail, maybe
even plate mail, uh potentially spells,
and things of that nature. If we spend
phases
outside of this area,
we take penalties from the Gaes.
Correct. Every phase that you spend, if
the next phase is a town phase without
returning to this dungeon, that's when
the Gaes affects you. And I'm just
looking at the map from
from here from the euphonious room to
get would getting back to that hexagon
chamber be a a dunge engineering check
from here. It's all considered the same
room. No, but it it's not fast travel.
You understand? But then, right, but
then back to the hall of statues would
be a check and then back to the empty
hallways would be a check and from there
we're on the map. Correct. So, we're
talking at least minimum two checks,
right?
If we camp though, this is all on the
map, assuming I succeed.
I uh need to set a goal. Yeah. And
that's kind of what I was going to
rewind us back to cuz Oh, yeah. If our
goal I think that's what we're
discussing is if our goal is to have
Amos attempt to seal this
ritual or create perform this ritual. Um
are we going to be able to do everything
in one session? Like, you know what I
mean? Obviously, return the harp, maybe
we could. I mean, I I definitely think
I'd like that to be my goal. I just
don't know if that should be my goal
this session. Um, but returning the harp
seems like a really good one. Well, to
be completely clear, I mean, I know it
was a month ago. The sort the spirit
doesn't care about returning the harp.
What the what the hell is the spirit
going to do with the harp? Oh, I just
need to procure it. Well, he basically
said, "You need you need the harp in
order to be able to prove to me that
you're worthy." Yeah, that was my way of
saying you guys don't have enough
precedence to convince him to give you
the harp or to give you the dagger
because you cannot you guys did engage
in a convince conflict with him, but
it's like engaging in a kill conflict
with a dragon. You can, but even if you
win, you lose because you can't. Are we
already worthy then or do I actually
have to like strum the No, you have to
you have to convince him. Yeah, we go
back. We say we've got the harp. Well,
then I want that to be my goal is to
convince the guy. Yeah. Like that's
actual the goal. Well, and and here's
the thing, though. Getting this dagger
doesn't help with the ritual. No, the
dagger is useful against the the
sorcerer. Correct. The sorcerer. Dragon
sorcerer. So, it's good to get that, but
do we want to do we want that to take
our time when we should be working on
trying to get this ritual done? Like,
well, yeah. The only thing I can think
of is the ritual is done by Elvin
uh was Elvin was basically the Elven
people were bound to it. Yeah, this
ghost spirit is an elven person. Oh,
yeah. So, maybe they know because we at
this point we know we we now have the
sinking suspicion that there are getting
the torqus are not is not an option. Oh,
I mean it is but yeah, not within the
time allotted. It's a much more
complicated proposition now. Yeah.
Scott, what's that guy's name that we're
going to convince?
Spirit. I don't remember if he gave his
name. Maybe he didn't. If he did, I
didn't write it down. I'll just write
spirit. I'm going to make that my goal
even though it might not happen this
session. I would hope it could, but if
it can't, it can't. Well, he he might be
able to give us if if we go back, you
play the harp for him, we convince him,
we get the dagger, he might give us
insight as to how to take care of this
without the torqus and maybe without
sacrificing. That seems like all of us
fast thing we have to get done because
this is happening in three or less
phases. Three. Yes, exactly.
So, if we camp, aren't clocks fun? Yeah.
Make things interesting. That's Well,
actually, yeah, I didn't write his name
down, but I didn't write this name down.
What's Zargax? Zar, is that the actual
dragon's name? That sounds or is that
the demon? Zarax might be the name of
the demon. I wrote elf war against
Zarjax the dragon. Yeah. Oh. Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that is that's the dragon that the
dragon bone dagger is is is made from.
Yeah. Okay. So, there's another dragon.
Yeah, that dragon's dead. Gotcha. So, if
we camp, that's one phase. Yes. If we
then go back into the adventuring phase
and hopefully I pass my check in the
camp or to uh make update the map in the
camp, then we could go to
uh the the the spirit
and do a couple checks there, have a
little conflict with him, try and
convince him. Um, we're still in the
adventuring phase, right? Correct. So
then we could try We're at four at that
point. And then we would go do Yeah. We
would have no time to go back to town.
We would have to go uh right then to go
try and Well, no, you you would have one
more phase because you you get five
phases basically. Like it would be like
Okay. Five and then it happens and then
it happens. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. It's one
It's one, two, three, go. Then go. Yeah.
Yeah.
Go on three. Go on three or or one, two,
three, go. Can that Amos can that uh
ritual be performed anywhere?
No. I got the impression has to be done
in that room. It has to be done in that
room. Yeah. Which means we need to Yeah.
Right. Because what you basically
discovered is that that wasn't actually
an ancient tomb. It was actually an
ancient ritual ritual chamber. Um, then
I I vote for camping so we can update
this map and and perhaps get Dennis some
health back, right? I also cannot stress
enough. We have no checks. We have to
give goals. No, no. Bob has one check.
Goals. You guys need goals and
instincts. Well, I think we had to
figure out what we were going to do. All
right. All right. That's fair. No,
that's fair enough. My goal is set if my
goal my my belief is still I will always
have my friends back. I convinced the
spirit that we are worthy of the dagger
is the goal and my instinct is always
look ahead when exploring the air. That
has not changed. The only thing I
changed this week was my goal. Okay. All
right.
So dagger I think is seems like that's
where a lot of the energy is and then
hopefully using the rest the time to
work on this seal. This energy might
change quick if we can't. So I think I'm
going to go back to my original original
goal of get the dagger. Get that dragon
boat dagger. I'm so indecisive. Yeah, I
know. Wishywashy. All right. Well, that
leaves I am tain the waffler. That's
right. So, that leaves you saddak saddle
belly. I would like to find out what
this uh mysterious powder is. Is that
Yeah, that's fine. That's a totally
acceptable goal. Yep. Not enough salt.
Yeah. All right. Sounds like you know
what? Sounds like something you would do
in camp. That's a Yeah. Yeah. The
problem is that we only have a check.
No, I think we I think we need more
checks to do anything. I mean problem
technically we could go now but you know
doing a check getting a check would be
great so we need to go the only downside
the only downside is is if you do make a
check well it doesn't have to
necessarily be a BS role um if you make
some sort of check because I mean every
check every test that you make is
valuable right um but uh the only
downside is if you do make a test it
will obviously grind you and everyone
will become hungry and thirsty but that
might not be the end of the world we're
at three already. Does sadak is your
instinct still to cook for everybody?
Yep. That's not changing. So that
actually that actually could work to
your advantage in some ways. Yeah. So
it's so we will recover we will at least
get an attempt to recover that as a
group. Yes. As soon as we camp uh so we
can afford to get it and then make quote
unquote what we get one check and then
like three more checks before we need to
do it again. So does does the grind
trigger as soon as we make this next
check. So it fills the clock. Correct.
As soon as that next test is complete,
yeah, then the grind occurs. So then
after that, we can do three more of
something. Correct. Before the before
the test occurs again. Yes. It's just
particularly scary for Dennis, right?
Because if he becomes hungry. Oh no, you
you you cleared your you've cleared your
angry, so you got a little bit of room.
Yeah. Um we got a little bit of a
breather. All right. So we need to You
want to move around a little bit then?
You want to go try to see if we can find
it?
I don't think we have enough checks to
make it even worth camping. Okay, then
we have to go do something. Yep. All
right. Well, then in that case, session
begin. Session begins. All right.
All right. So, the um the the piles of
undead uh still stand in collapsed piles
of salt around you. The harp of the
grave, Euphonius, is in Coronal's hand.
As a reminder, Coronal and party, the
Euphonius is pack two, wielded two.
Yeah, that's the problem. If we if I if
you guys want me to have my bow out, I
got to find a place to put this thing.
Um, yeah. Well, times are tough. Raise
raise one of these dumb dead and have
them follow you around carrying stuff.
And Saddok, you are down the pouch or
down the sack holding a torch. One of
his pouches, I think. And you are back.
Yeah, I see it in your inventory. Yeah.
Um, and then uh and your other hand is
free. Got it. Okay. Tane, you are still
holding a sack full of gold.
Yes, I am. And your staff is in your off
hand. It can be carried. It cannot be
wielded. FYI, right? Yep. And then, uh,
Amos, you still have your spear and
shield ready. Is that right? Yep. And a
beautiful crown. And a beautiful crown.
And a glowing eye of the burning lord
amulet and a fist-sized ruby inscribed
with the name of the Lord of Fire. A
humble peasant.
the peasant peasantiest peasant that
ever peasanted. The peasant the peasant.
Um there was a bunch of checks last sess
yesterday with the Saturday crew and
like the only thing that could help was
peasant on all these checks and they're
like why is no one a peasant? Um
they don't have the best player of all
time. That's right. Okay. Well, um
well uh what do you guys want to do? So
this this other passages off this room
this is basically like one to the south
but let's just go back.
So, I have a I have a way you can free
up a hand. Uh, Carnalis. Okay. Uh, you
put the sack in your hand and you put
the harp in the sack and then you have a
you have one hand open, right? That
doesn't help you wield a bow, though.
But I know a sling.
I do have a sling. Do you have a sling?
Throw the throw the arrows. Wait, you
have a sling. Just get rid of the sling.
You don't Oh, you do have a sling. Oh,
it's But it's in your backpack. That's
not great. Yeah, it's just been sitting
in there. Oh, got a dagger. I guess that
dagger could go around my neck. You also
have a sack in your Yeah, you could you
could give your garlic. No, you could
give your garlic to Saddok. Okay. Garlic
to Saddock. Yep. Dagger on my neck.
Dagger on your neck. Okay. Get Get rid
of the sling in the sack. Sling on the
ground. Yep. And then I can put it. Now
I have two open spots. Right. Now you
Now you Now you can put the harp in the
backpack. All right. Harp in the
backpack. Yep. Note that you've stashed
it at the bottom.
Yeah. Uh, okay. Probably want to put it
up top if you want to grab it. Middle
actually is probably where you want to
put it. Why? What else am I grabbing
back in my backyard? So, the bottom can
get ripped out and the top can get
ripped out, but the middle is the one
that's kind of sheltered. Is my
understanding correct? Mostly, but
remember though that the thing at the
top is also the easiest and most
accessible. Let them try. Let like right
now. Just saying. Bob's tinder box is at
the bottom of his backpack. Just saying.
When we light torches, I don't know how
easy you light them in combat. All
right. I'll I'll remember that. Mine's
in my pocket. Mine Oh, yours yours is on
yours is on your belt pouch. Yours yours
I got that on I got that goes out. Yeah,
your yours is in the best possible short
of being in your hand, Ryan. Yours is in
the best possible location. Um, all
right. Let's make our way to the hex
chamber. That seems to be the logical.
That's the only way out of here. Yeah,
that's literally no check. That's just
turning around and going back. Okay.
Now, there's that passageway, the the
second passageway out of here. Correct.
So, let me We could explore there if we
wanted to. I got a behind us is the is
the statue room statue with the scary
golem. So, yeah, I think that is the
best place to try and get some check
maybe a little bit of treasure. I don't
know. More rooms.
Uh, where the
heck did I put that room?
I mean, the other thing that might be
worth doing is going back to the
sarcophagus to the ritual room and
seeing if we can determine how many
phases are left
[Music]
or if there's some inscription on the
wall that talks about how to refresh it
even without the torqu
like a little fine print somewhere. When
would the checks start happening to get
back?
Uh, how the check the checks to just get
back to where we need to go to be on the
map. How that we we we have to have
probably a dunge engineering check to
get back to the hall of statues and our
another one to get back into the empty
hallways. Then we're on the map. I must
have like deleted that or something
right there.
Are we are we of agreement? We want to
fail these or at least have them stacked
against us. We We don't necessarily want
to fail them. We We want to use We want
to use our traits. We want to use our
traits against us and still succeed,
which would require us to have a
dungeonering skill of greater than none.
Well, unfortunately, like uh I'm not
really paying attention to what you guys
are saying. Exactly. He's he's trying
not to be sacrificed. Yes. Exactly. It's
not there. Uh, so if if you have dunge
engineering zero, you it's a health
check. Uh, I believe so. Yes. If that's
what the beginner's luck is, but also
don't but don't forget nature. You could
that you could also use your uh nature
even if it doesn't work. That's what
I've done a couple times because I have
beginner's luck uh twice on that now for
dunge engineering. Wow, this is crazy. I
really don't know because I could quick
I could hastily get us back
uh uh uh make an effort to hastily get
us back and use my quick wit against me.
I remember the way. No problem. And our
trait usage is reset for the session.
Right. Right. Right. Your trait usage is
reset. Correct. Um Oh, wow. Okay. It was
way the [ __ ] back there. Okay.
I don't know why. I don't know. Sorry
about that. I guess I deleted that.
Okay, uploading the file. My apologies.
Um,
there we go.
All right, so you uh you guys return to
room is so sweet.
Uh you guys return to the large hexagon
room which has the inscribed pillar and
the crackling globe which is flittering
with a very soft uh dim light which once
was probably a bright light but of
course over the millennia the sort of
continual light spell has sort of faded
and ended. There is of course the
passage back out of this way where you
came from that leads to the hallway of
statues. But there is another sort of al
cove chamber again uh to the right.
There's also of course the rune
inscribed altar uh which is uh
underneath the crackling globe.
That's right. We do we never did
investigate that. I thought Amos went up
and looked at it, but I don't think
anything ever I don't think anyone tried
to
Yeah. All I have is it's uh has strange
dart sigils. Ancient language predating
Elvin or uh ancient Elvish gem. It was a
we know it was dedicated to the dead.
Yeah. Right. As I recall, you guys
looked at it, but no one like made any
attempt to translate it. We just kind of
you guys were kind of looking at your
turn clock like Yeah. I don't know. I
don't know if we wanted to actually
spend. Yeah. Basically, whatever we
whatever we
take. I mean, GM Scott, if you want to
make a scholar test. Yeah, that's kind
of what I was thinking. Uh, I I I think
now we can look at this and try and
figure out what this uh what this says
if you guys don't mind. Yeah, I Yeah, as
much as I want to want to get checks, I
also don't want to go get too committed
into an area that would like um the
twists or anything could really spiral,
you know.
That's why this flaw this entire time.
If checks just by trying to get back,
you know, if there wasn't a cool twist,
he would never have brought the runes
back up again. You know, I'm just
letting you know what's going on here.
This sixided it has been a month. This
six-sided chamber is tiled with
alternating obsidian and redstone tiles.
The ceiling slowly rises to a point 20
ft above it from a height of 8 ft at the
wall. Directly above sits a pitted globe
hanging, drizzling out a Wayne, fading,
crackling light. An altar made of the
purest black marble sits directly
beneath this in front of the main
entrance. Subtle runes carved across its
smooth surface.
Wow, that's some good box text. Yeah. Um
and I I remember I had this I think I
had asked about uh if there was any
religious significance through
you know theology or anything and there
was nothing no that I had to check
against. So yeah. So I it just seems to
be written in an ancient language.
I will uh pull out my uh uh portable uh
the the the ancient uh uh device that
had the multiple languages on it that
helped us figure out Egyptian
hieroglyphs. I can't remember the
Rosetta Stone. The Rosetta. Yeah, I'll
pull out my little Rosetta book. Okay.
And uh um either scholar, lore master,
whatever it is. Scholar is almost
usually almost always the uh thing to go
for when it is uh uh uh use it to read,
write, research subject and thing. So
it's like literally used for that.
There's a fact reading uh weird
inscriptions. That is literally one of
the ops. Almost perfect. Yeah. Almost
perfect. All right. So I will um I will
attempt to scholar this. Yep. Uh by
comparing my notes and uh seeing if I
can find similar symbols, you know, uh
match up as many as I can. figure out
where this originally came from, what
the purpose of this room might be. Um,
okay. And can I help him? Yeah, you can
help with lore master, steward, or
scholar. What about
remembering
as one of my natures? Yes, if you could
describe it. Well, my thought process
was this is ancient, but the language
that we use now can be derived from
portions of it. So, I can't necessarily
decipher it, but I can tell you that
that uh slash line over there has been
used in previous iterations as tree and
you know Oh, absolutely. I mean, there's
a there's a very good chance, Bob, that
this is ancient Elvin. Correct. That was
my hope. And that you actually used to
know this language,
but it's just been 2,000 years. I'm
trying to remember. So, yeah, you could
totally help with your nature. Cool.
I'll be helping you, Mr. Are you helping
or are you synergizing?
Synergizing, I have to use a fate point
and then if you if GM Scott succeeds,
your nature will get a pass. And if GM
Scott fails, your nature will get a
fail. Damn. Cuz I think I want you to
fail then if I do that.
I want my nature to like go down. But um
Well, no, because getting passes and
failures is going to make your nature go
up.
No matter what. Nope. Nope. Don't want
to do that. Okay. No synergizing. So,
just helping. Yep, just helping.
All right. Um, what kind of OB are we
looking for here? It's ob two. Okay,
that's not terrible. Weird inscriptions.
So, obviously Tain is moving over
towards the altar. Karanas is there with
him. Mhm. Sodak and Amos, what are you
doing while this check is going on? I'm
holding the light above them. Thank you
for coming over. I was wondering if we
were going to have any light for this.
All right. Oh, yeah. Good idea. Thank
you. Yeah. So, as a reminder, this
entire chamber is dim light, but
obviously in this case, we're going to
want to put Karanas out of the light and
Tain in the light so he doesn't get the
penalty. Need to be able to see. Well,
I can't
and exhaustingly hanging back. All
right, fair enough. So, fair enough.
Wiping the blood from my eyes, right? I
couldn't see anyways, so there's too
much blood. All right, GM Scott. Uh, so
let me bring up I can't I can't spend a
persona cuz I don't have one. Correct. I
can't channel my nature, right? Um, but
I you were going to use a trait against
yourself. Well, I also kind of want to
succeed, but uh Well, you can't have it
both ways, my friend. Can't have I know
I can't have everything. And you do have
to describe how succeed by using it
against yourself. That's true. Um, sure.
Um, well, actually, yeah. Why am I
rolling five dice? Well, right now you
have your wizard you have your wizard
site aiding you. Oh, okay. Yeah, that's
why. So, if I do no trade there, back to
forward dice op two. So, if I if I pick
my wizard site and I choose it to go
against me, right? Well, obviously first
you have to make sure that that makes
sense in the fiction, right? And and
what I'm picturing in my mind is as I'm
trying to decipher these runes, right?
Um, anyone else would just be looking at
a book and looking at the runes and
trying to make comparisons. But of
course, my arcane energies are not
necessarily activating something in the
plinth, but but detecting something and
and maybe it was uh the past residual
static. Yeah. Yeah. And it just the the
the
um the images seem to blur and maybe uh
uh you know bounce off and and and just
cause me maybe a little bit of mental
pain while I'm trying to do this. Yeah.
Yeah. Makes sense to me. All right,
cool. So, you'll earn a check for this.
Uh pass or fail. And uh that's that's
that's all she wrote. All right. Three
dice two. This is going to be easy.
That's a 50% chance according to the
rules of the game. All right. Here we
go.
Oh, hey.
It looks good. All right. All right. All
right. So, first things first, uh, GM
Scott, uh, the turn advances. Grind
occurs. Everybody mark hungry and
thirsty. Yep.
And I get to mark pass or fail.
And you get to mark a pass.
All right, it's about time for 11s,
guys.
Um,
or at least a drink of something and
have been workshopping how to use this
undead salt in a stew. Jim Scott Tain
takes a few moments and painstakingly
translates the ancient elven. After a
few moments, the torch light continues
to burn on and you can feel the passage
of time. And finally, you've
accomplished enough to to discover its
meaning. It reads,
"Those who seek to recall life's past
light walk with suffering to the to the
right." That is the alco where you found
the harp.
Those who seek a test from those bereft
walks with reticence to the left.
So if you seek to recall life's past
light, then you walk with sufference to
the right. Who seek those who seek a
test from those bereft walks with
reticence to the left. So it looks like
we chose hesitation. Yeah. Okay.
So, if we want to test from those bereft
of life,
we walk with reticence, hesitantly,
slowly, maybe carefully. Mhm. Um,
go uh go left. Mhm.
So, um,
going to the right,
which was a which was a good thing, only
had six zombies. Um, what would be in
store going to the left? Um,
that's our question. So, do we want to
go that way or do we want to go back? So
the the way to the left or so the way to
the right. I will say the the the the
the
grammar and the noun verb form that they
use there suggests that test is another
way of sort of uh there's an implication
there of a reward if you pass the test.
Oh, okay. Well, that changes it. We're
going.
So if if the if the side of uh T don't
forget to mark hungry thirsty, please.
Oh, yeah. Thank you.
something if if to if the way we went
was to the right
and uh it was something about you've
been to the right. Yeah. Yeah. And and
that was and that it was a and and it
was the light of life and it was undead.
Is that what you said? Is that what the
alter
light of life was? So would it be like a
maybe like a living if it's if it's has
if bereff
something
yeah I was unfortunately trying to write
with a pen and pencil instead of typing
it so I couldn't keep up with him. I
couldn't
keep up. Oh if I was if I was if I would
have thought to type it I would have
been able to keep up no problem. Those
who seek to recall life's past light
walk with sufference to the right.
Those who seek a test from those bereft
walks with reticence to the left.
left. So go bold to get the harp and go
cautiously to get
something a test which is which would
merit a reward if we pass such test.
Yeah. Okay. Well, let's very cautiously
I mean I'll go look if you guys want me
to look. I think you have to, don't you?
I do.
Go cautiously, my friend. It is
dangerous to go alone. Take this. I hit
him a rock.
a rock. I can't even hold this. I have
my I literally can't hold this.
Something I found on the floor. All
right. Um, so yeah, I want we want to go
to the left.
All righty. Do I have that map? Probably
not.
Sprinkle in some chat GPT. Oh, no. The
maps were made. I just, you know, or the
images were made. I just never really,
you know, got around to it. Um,
why would they go here if they had the
harp?
Is it said the word last word we use was
reticent? What does that mean, Mr.
Residence? Yeah, it's uh to to go
carefully or hesitantly uh reluctance
almost. There's a little connotation of
reluctance with repentance and and and
bereft uh without not having.
So those bereft of life are those that
are not alive and bereft is not just not
alive because a rock is not alive but
means it's been taken. So undead can go
to the right but if you're dead don't go
be hesitant when going to the right. So
there must be some sort of like maybe
like a smiting thing or some sort of All
right, Bob. Yeah. Yes. Clear up as you
go. The this chamber is filled with the
same damp soil that fills the long al
cove directly to the east. The faint
smell of mildew and earth is faintly
detectable. Okay. But other than that,
it seems to be a long empty chamber, but
your instinct kicks in and you begin to
explore it. How you scout and you
disappear. I disappear. Yep. Oh, dang.
So, the rest of you see Tomb of Horrors.
I'm going to end up without any The rest
of you see Bob move into the chamber and
then he just disappears into the
darkness. Now, I noticed this happened
myself. Well, you you obviously noticed
that happened, but you know, the other
party members don't know what happened
to you, Bob. So, well, I'm just saying I
noticed that I'm like gone. You don't
know. You don't know anything right now.
Well, then I'm going to say something.
Simonus Amos. No, no. Oh yeah, you could
say whatever you want, but I'm just
saying the first thing I want to think
of time is time has stopped for you.
Yeah, Bob, time has stopped for you. So
the rest of you let us know that you're
gone, right? They see you. They see you
walk to the left. An old rope trick and
then disappear. Hide me in. So I see him
disappear. I look at them. I'm like,
"All right, back to the statue room
then."
See, that was pretty good gallows humor,
GM Scott. That was really well done.
That's good. That's good. First one.
First official. We actually did it. We
officially did it. I forgot about it. I
purpose. There's a great Saturday thing
where like you could see like Darth is
like really hurting. He's like, "Oh, I
need that fate point." He's just like,
"This is so like he's like so hurt that
he's like, "Oh man, something." And he
like makes this really pained effort to
talk in character and make this bad joke
and like and he's like, "That hurts so
bad, but I needed the fate point so
bad."
Oh, I gotta go. I got to I can't wait to
watch the Saturday crew. So, uh,
Coranolas, you disappear. The rest of
you, you see Coranolas step into the
hallway and he disappears as soon as he
gets uh even one step into this chamber
uh to the long out cove of dirt. Um, so
what do you guys want to do? I will run
up to the edge of that chamber, but not
go in. Yep. And like yell in Coronal.
Your voice carries and echoes uh
normally, but GM Scott, with your wizard
trait talent, you can see the faint
fading
um aura of a magical effect, a
teleportation effect. Okay. Now, is
there an actual room or No. Yeah. I
mean, it's just blackness. It No, no, it
looks just like kind of like the other
chamber. A little bit different where
it's kind of like a kind of like a
hallway room, dead end, and filled with
kind of soil, gravy soil, fil smells
like mold and mildew. kind of looked
almost exactly the same actually. May
not looked like he was walking with
reticence as he moved. Uh, you know, he
was No, I mean, you know, he was being
cautious, right? He was scouting. He was
trying to be, you know, kind of discreet
cuz sometimes he can get a little
exuberant, right? All right. I need to
know what the three of you are doing and
then that will determine what uh what we
do from here. Yeah. I'll just kind of
look back like I he he's portaled
somewhere. He some something took him
somewhere. Do we want to try and follow?
That's really what I want to know. Uh,
take out my spider rope and throw one
end through. Okay. You throw your spider
rope into the room. Nothing happens.
Should we tie it to the altar?
That's a lead.
The spider rope went into the room. It
didn't like It went in the room just
fine. Hold on to one end, you know.
Yeah. Oh, I got you. He didn't throw the
whole thing. gigantic teleportation or
some nonsense from tumor horrors.
Uh, all right. Do we want to poltergeist
this annihilation? I'll I'll pick up the
rope and
try and
clear my mind.
Yeah, I tie off the end to the altar.
Okay, fair enough. Easy done. Actually,
a bad good idea. Maybe I'll tie the
other end to myself. Okay. Instead of
trying to hold it, uh, you know, set the
staff down, tie it, grab the staff, and
then start to walk forward. All right.
Slowly, GM Scott reluctantly. Tain with
reticence. Tain disappears and the rope
draws to the ground.
This room's getting a little crowded
wherever we teleported. All right, we
should uh That means the rope two down.
Two down. Hey, two more and we won't
have to worry about this demon.
We'll be in another plane somewhere
living it up. We'll switch to Dagger
Heart.
We can't leave our friends. We should
tie the The rope didn't do do us any
service, right? It seemed went slack.
Yeah. No, I mean like he disappeared. He
disappeared like from it, you know? Like
it's like he disappeared and the rope
that he had tied around himself didn't
get cut. No, didn't get didn't get cut.
Okay. All right. Let's untie the rope,
take it with us, and let's go in there
and we need to save our friends. We
can't help them here.
Decisions, decisions like friends,
question mark, or or stay here and you
and maybe you can figure out something
with this archway. Yeah. Sadock's like,
"You go uh trap the demon. I'll see you
later."
Uh and uh Saddak will uh
uh scamper into the to the uh the
portal, not the through the archway.
Scamper.
All right, Amos. Everyone disappears.
Yeah. Untie that by the way. All right.
Yes. Go to the hallway. All right. Amos,
you disappear.
Now with Saddok in here, is it room lit?
Now time resumes for you. Now time
resumes for you, Bob.
Hold out three rounds before we show up.
Coranalas, you appear. Well, luckily no
one made any no one made any uh checks.
Checks. Tests is the actual correct
term, but uh All right. Yeah, tests. uh
you disappear and appear in darkness. Um
and as your sort of eyes begin to slowly
adjust uh you realize that this room is
completely black like you can't see
anything but then euphonius which you
are holding begins to glow
and gives you enough barely enough
illumination. Yes. Yeah. In my backpack
glowing. Yeah. It's It's giving you just
enough illumination to sort of barely
make out this chamber. It's right on
top. The flap doesn't cover it. So, it's
kind of leaking out. It's like a It's
like about as much light as you get from
like your alarm clock, you know, in a
dark room. Um, and so you're able to
just make out uh a completely square
chamber with no entrances and no exits.
Lovely. Except for a big square hole in
the wall. Except for a big square in the
hole in the wall, which uh I tried I
think I recall trying now and I'm
remembering now. I tried to put like a
skull in there and it wouldn't work and
so I ended up just making another skull
in my midjourney thing. So, hold on a
sec here. I'm glad I mentioned it. Thank
you. I I was I was I was lost without
it. Um
it's going to be like some massive thing
here. Um all right, there we go. Uh
loading. Please wait. Um so as your uh
eyes adjust Caranolas to the chamber,
your instinct technically still
triggers. Bob. Sweet. Scout. So, you get
to uh you get to make a scout roll. Now,
let me see here.
Can I Yep. Uh
um do this uh scared? Uh no. Yeah, of
course you can. I mean, the only thing
you can't do scared, Bob, is uh No, I
mean, I'm not using the word afraid. I'm
using like opposite of calm. Oh, I see
what you're saying. Oh, you're not being
calm. You're being panicked.
Disappeared into a room that I don't
know anything about, but I'm scouting.
The problem is calm. You're always calm.
But the question is, how is calm a
disadvantage here?
Yeah. You're not afraid of the flaming
skull that's about to eat you. Okay.
Yeah. So,
yeah. Well, then the loner would be the
almost a disadvantage here because I'm I
don't want to be alone. Like, I want my
friends back. because I'm by myself.
Hypothetically, I came in first. Well,
right. Remember, you are a loner. Yeah.
So, how is that giving you a penalty
here? Uh because uh
Yeah, exactly. I my thought was u my guy
would go instantly in panic. I've sort
of started to rely on my friends um to
help me through this. So, maybe you're
no longer a loner. Well, that's I
changed my belief earlier because of
that, right? And your traits your traits
do get to update by the way in the
winter in the winter phase, you know,
which we get to in the winter phase. Um,
in fact, you're the GM and then I think
your allies, your players get to
nominate one of your traits that they
don't think longer applies and then you
can update it and change it. But the
question here is for all intents and
purposes, you are still a loner. How is
that hurting you in this situation?
Right. I would think it hurt me in this
because I instead of just going to check
on things and coming back to my friends,
I've I've actually I
isol isolated myself from my friends.
Okay. And in this case, uh I think it
hurts you because I have no backup. I
have being alone actually is the worst
case scenario for what I've just
encountered. Correct. Um and like I
said, I think personally Kronos would be
a little bit uh frightened about what
just happened and transpired.
Yep. All right. That makes I would like
to scout uh nervously and uh but again
acting sort of against uh my loner
ability here. Yep. Okay. So it is it is
an OB 2 scout check.
OB 2 scout check because there is stuff
to see here. OB two.
All right. Here we go. Oh, these don't
look good. Zero successes.
Okay. Um, so Bob, uh, mark a failure.
Yep. Mark a check.
All right, Bob. Uh, as you appear, you
begin peering around into the darkness.
And um, as you do so, you suddenly see a
flicker of flame on the far side of the
room in an al cove. The depth of the
floor is difficult to determine because
of the dense thick layer of soil above
it. And this darkened skull
gleaming with a red radiance sits in a
tiny al cove in the center of the west
wall. It then begins screaming and
yelling in an ancient language. And as
it does so,
this is what I was talking about. Being
alone sucks right now. And as it does
so, did I only you had some way to
understand, Ted? I deleted. I know.
That's what I think. Why do I yell back
at her in a second? I'm so like um
what's the word I'm looking for? I'm so
discombobulated. No, I'm just very I'm a
very lazy out of it. Oh, I'm very lazy
uh as a as a GM. And so like I always
just like I just like delete stuff, you
know, like instead of like just instead
of just like saving it, I just deleting
stuff takes energy. I have so much crap
laying around because I don't delete
stuff. Um
Bob, you see zombie? Yep.
You see
chisen. Hey, this doesn't seem any
different than that other room.
Oh, this looks like more. Oh, yeah, it
does.
11 12 13. There we go. Perfect. 13
zombies emerge and then
Tain appears next to you.
Hey, good. I won't die alone. How did
you do? Followed shortly thereafter by
Saddok. There's going to be a brief l
while Amos kind of comes in. Let's go
back. There is no way out of this room.
Um there is no there is no ent exit or
entrance and then um the voice from the
skull like screams out in an ancient
tongue. It's like um I'm trying to think
of an example of that. You know like um
you know from the David Lynch Dune
movie. This will only make sense to the
two people. When the guild navigators
are talking into the box and like in
their harsh tongue and then it
translates it like a second or two later
into English. Yeah. Like the bald guy
with the tube sticking out of his head.
Yep. So like the the skull is like
And then the harp like a second or two
later chimes and you hear a voice ring
out from it and it says, "Your presence
here constitutes your agreement to the
trials. Choose your measure. Test by
strife or test by wit."
Well, I think I would go by wit.
Yeah. Uh yeah, let's go with wit. Uh,
and then Amos,
you appear after apparently they've made
their decision.
Um, son of a I just did this.
Easy, easy. It's a Woo. All right. So,
you appear in the chamber, Amos, and the
flickering light of the torch reveals a
glowing red skull and 13 zombies which
are now all moving to the sides of the
corridor after the uh Coronal wielder of
Euphonius says by wit. Mhm.
13 zombies here apparently to lead a
trivia contest. All right. Well, a
couple of things. Just looked at a
burden and that's not good.
Uh well, a couple of things. What if you
don't have the harp? Um
you can't understand them. So they
default to
they just attack you. That's right. Um
but also you know then uh you are
potentially stuck here. um for all time.
Anyways, um the uh the spirit, the skull
or whatever like that um you know um
starts to uh you know kind of rise up
the red energy glowing from him and he
says, "Very well, let the contest
begin." And we enter a riddling
conflict. Huh? Good thing we got
You're on, buddy. All
right, I cover all the base. We got a
peasant. We got a Riddler.
We have an We have a We have a Mr. We
have a Mr. Frost. We have a Poison Ivy.
Um All right. I am sprinkling so much
salt on my riddles.
All right. Um Oh, you have the undead
salt. That might help. So, this is a uh
this is this is a conflict. This is a
riddle conflict. Um and so riddle
conflicts are kind of weird. It is an
abstract concept of a riddle riddling
contest which means you don't literally
have to come up with riddles and you
don't literally have to answer them.
Right? The idea is that you guys are
sort of trying to you know uh tell each
other riddles and get the other person
to fail on them and to lose them. Okay.
Oh, ask him what's in your pocket. Okay.
That doesn't count, Precious. However,
there is something that's very strange
about a riddle conflict, which is
if you actually tell a riddle, it counts
as a weapon and you get plus one die and
plus one success to for attacking.
But if you know the answer, it's worth
plus two successes on a defense.
Okay. Okay. So, you should be pretty
decent. If you So if you want to, you
can actually tell a riddle and use it as
like a weapon and then if I have the
answer and I'm defending, I get it
counts as like plus two s plus two
successes in the in the defend action.
Um, but if you don't want to tell a
riddle, that's fine. You can just
describe how your character, you know,
elaborates on a riddle. And you know,
again, it's this sort of abstract
concept of you guys are sort of going
back and forth trying to out, you know,
outwit them and outmaneuver them and
sort of, you know, um get them to fail
the test of the riddle, right? The test
of wits. In reality, we'd be sitting
here going like, "Okay, there were four
kings and three queens and three queens
had three sons, and the sons each bel,
you know, it'd be some puzzle thing that
you got." But if you want to, how many
were going to St. Ives, right? But if
you want to, you can do this. Um, okay.
So, this is a riddle conflict. So, you
guys will need to pick a conflict
captain.
Um, normally to be able to do a riddling
conflict, the only con the only uh you
can actually riddle against anyone of
any might in any precedence. I elect
Saddak the Riddler. But, well, but uh
the normally the only conflict is you
have to be able to actually understand
them. Euphonius allows you to do that.
So, that's why we are here. In a
riddling conflict,
um you uh you roll manipulator plus will
for your disposition.
And you attack and faint with
manipulator and you defend and maneuver
with lore master. Oh gosh, these are not
good for me. Um and obviously if you
have nature, you can use that if
particularly if it's, you know, fits
your descriptors or whatever like that
case may be. Manipulator other than that
manipulator is attack. Uh yeah,
manipulator plus will. Yeah. So, and the
the disposition is manipulator plus
will. As a reminder, your disposition is
going to be minus two. You have someone
who's exhausted and you're all hungry
and thirsty.
Why didn't we drink before we went in?
All right. Um
and then manipulator. And here's the
problem. I'm manipulator zero.
I've got a two, but I'm one failure. No,
Ryan, that's good. Oh, yeah. Because if
you had manipulator one, you'd have to
use manipulator one. But because you
don't have manipulator, you can use your
nature and it won't even count as
outside of your nature because one of
your nature traits is riddling. Riddle.
And it's a Y, too. Excellent job,
Captain. All right. Uh, so there you go.
Uh, good stuff.
So it's so uh I I will make a will check
because I or right or do I riddle check?
Yes, you are going to use your it is it
is technically a it is technically a
manipulator test but you don't have it.
So you can use your
uh nature nature or will. Yeah, nature.
And it's modified by my will or no? Uh
correct.
Uh only for yeah for dis. Okay. So a
couple things here. So the roll type
here Ryan is disposition. Okay. So
change that and it's going to say added
to will. So you're going to be rolling
your three dice of your nature, adding
it to your will. Then on the bottom of
the middle column, Ryan, there are two
check boxes minus one S if anyone in
your party is hungry and thirsty. And
then there's another checkbox minus one
S for anyone who is exhausted. So you're
going to roll three dice, add it to your
will, and then subtract two. Yeah.
And there's nothing else to add to that
unless someone is helping you or you're
using a trait or you want to you want to
channel your persona blah blah blah blah
blah blah blah. Can we help each other
on disposition checks? You can always
help each other on disposition checks.
Uh I cannot help if as I am afraid if
you can right so Amos can't help. He's
afraid. And for you to help you have to
be able to help manipulator
because that is still the core skill
right of this. So I have manipulator. So
then you can describe. Now remember,
disposition isn't you actually
attacking. It's just sort of like it's
the hit points. It's the hit points.
It's how ready you are for this, you
know. So the description of the help can
be pretty, you know, loosey goosey. It's
more of just like, you know, it's more
like, you know, you crack your fingers
and you get ready to to spin to spin up
some crazy weird yarns. Yeah. It's like
as soon as uh as soon as he said strife
or wit and we said wit and he said, "All
right, it's going to be a riddles." I I
mean even you know if you roll back the
tape I even turned to him and said oh
this is your bag you know come on let's
go let's get ready. So I mean words of
encouragement and and doing what I can
to help him get in the zone. Okay.
So one help one help and then Bob left.
So there's that. Yeah. I would like to I
have some personal I have uh so I'd like
to do whatever I can here to help myself
with channel my nature. Okay. So, you're
already using your nature, which is
which is rolling with your nature, but
you can still channel your nature. So,
what you can do here then, uh, Ryan, is
checkbox, uh, take your current persona,
take it down by one. Yeah. And then take
the total spent and take it up by one.
This is at the top of the middle column.
Then what you can go ahead and do is
click the channel nature button. This is
within your nature. Yeah. So, you're
good there.
Persona spent plus 1D. And then uh well
no persona spent plus 1d would let you
add additional
if you want to spend more persona. Each
persona point will give you one dice.
But yeah. Okay. I think that's
everything I can do for this besides
maybe Bob helping me. So I'll wait.
Yeah. I mean I'm back but um I don't
know how I'm going to help you with the
riddle alert thing. I don't have no
manipulator. I have no ready. Do you
have persuader pumping him up? Uh I have
two in persuader actually. So there you
go. You can help. You just have to
describe in a rough sense what is
Kanolas doing as a persuading to help
the disposition to help the the party's
hit points for this conflict. Uh I would
think um uh in general uh maybe uh he
just says we got this. He would be he
would be starting to get the harp out
from his back. Totally. Being able to
understand this is actually very key to
us. Yep. That makes total sense. So go
ahead and add a help. Yep. And also, can
I put the harp into my hands? Yeah, you
can totally do it. Yeah, because it's
the start of the conflict. You're fine.
Sound everything. Two help channel.
Okay. Eight. All right. I'm rolling. All
right.
So, you got four successes minus two
because of the penalty. So, two
successes. Oh, plus five will. Okay. And
then plus five will. So, you have seven
disposition. Okay. Uh uh is there I have
uh can I uh spend one point to add and
and uh
six my one six you can fate. So go back
to your roll. Okay. So you want to use
luck
luck. Yep. So you're going to mark a
faint spend by making your current fate
down one and your spent fate up by one.
And then the number of sixes is not zero
but one. One. And then you can roll with
luck. And this will add one more
success. All right. So now you have a
total of five successes. Plus five will
is 10 disposition, but minus two because
you're both exhausted and you're hungry
and thirsty. So you have eight points to
spread evenly amongst the four of you,
which means you all get two. Nice. Now I
will roll his disposition. His nature
is d6. Uh his nature is six. So I'm
going to roll six dice.
Oh god. I was hoping all 13 wouldn't get
to roll either. No, they're not helping.
They're mindless. Hopefully they can.
So, I got 22. Well, I just rol I got
one, two, three, and I'm going to add
that to his nature, which is six. So, he
has nine disposition. Ouch. Joking.
Okay, so we're pretty evenly matched
here now. You definitely got this. You
guys have the advantage, of course. Now,
your conflict of this room is pretty
interesting with these zombies all over
the place in this flaming skull fighting
us. But they're not even fighting you.
You guys are engaged in a riddle in a
riddle to the death. Just looking at it,
you're like, by the way, it should go
without saying that uh what a failure
might represent here. Um
just let you know. Embarrassment.
Embarrass. That's right. Oh, you're
embarrassed. I'm so embarrassed. Okay,
so um first things first, um this is a
riddle conflict, so we don't really uh
have to like set this precise order and
stuff like that. Um and you know, just
going to equip a weapon or to that end
or whatever like that. So, the way it'll
work is if if someone attacks, they have
the option. This is how we're going to
do it. If someone attacks, they have the
option to tell a riddle. Mhm. Okay. And
if someone uh defends
and they answer that riddle, they get
plus two successes. And if you attack,
that's when you would do the the thing.
So, that's how that's going to work. So,
this guy's going to start it out. Of
course, remember, in this situation, who
know? It's very abstract, you know. So,
I mean, attacking means that you're
obviously like, you know, telling
riddles and trying to, you know, get the
person to lose. Defending means you're
answering riddles and sort of countering
back with your own like, but actually, I
get three I I should get three responses
to that. Maneuvering is sort of you uh,
you know, maybe trying to confuse them
or something like that. And fainting is
a [ __ ] riddle, like what do I have
in my pocket, right? Like, because it's
like it's not it's not really a riddle.
Um, and you don't get anything of that
nature. Okay, so I'm going to go ahead
and bring up the conflict deck.
and the spirit skull spirit uh sort of
you know appears before you and of
course begins the battle of the uh the
battle in full earnest against you. I
see like all the riddles I know off the
top of my head Derrick knows the answers
too. So it's not even like I'm like
trying to think of any of the riddles.
We used to do riddles all the time as
with my kids but I can't think of
anything like off the top right now.
Okay. And again, it's abstract, so you
know.
That would have been cool to think of a
good riddle.
I don't think he's gonna be defensive,
right? So, I think he's probably gonna
Yeah, he might come faint.
Test us first. You think? Yeah, he might
come out pretty strong. Maybe we should
defend. Is that what you're thinking? Or
do you want to try to maneuver? It's I
think it's maneuver. Maneuver or defend.
Uh, if enemy plays, we don't want to
faint cuz I think he's an attack. Yeah.
So, as a reminder, attack versus faint,
the faint gets cancelled. You were
trying some [ __ ] and they just came
in straight for the throat. Faint
doesn't even get to go. What? That's
what we don't want. Faint cancels
defense. So, if someone's trying to be
reasonable and be defensive and someone
comes up at you with some [ __ ] you
get canceled out. Maneuver
can never be canceled out but but
obviously maneuver only helps you like
with the next role. Yeah,
we like answer his riddle that we come
back with our own. So like a maneuver
attack
or uh what do you what do you think he
is going to do? Right. I think he's
going to attack or he's going to faint.
I don't think he's going to defend. I
don't but maybe he might maneuver. I'm
thinking like attack faint like attack
mess with us a bit and then like maybe
he might set up his his maneuver or his
attack with a maneuver.
Yeah. How do you You can't counter a
maneuver, but what's the best thing to
do with a maneuver? Attack back. Well,
the main thing with a maneuver is if
maneuver
the reason why it's different is because
if you faint or maneuver against a
maneuver, it's independent, right? Yeah.
If you attack or defend against a
maneuver, it's versus. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
You want to like faint usually
maybe depending ourselves just try and
Well, I don't I don't think we want to
uh because we're going to get hit. So, I
think we should either defend or
maneuver. I agree. Yeah. The downside to
defending is defense does nothing for
you. Yeah. I would maneuver first except
to regain hit points, but you can't
regain hit points when you're at max or
prevent hit points from being lost,
right? Yeah. Well, defense is versus,
so maneuver is versus. They do the same
thing. It's just that if you succeed
with the defense, you can heal. If you
succeed with a maneuver, you get to
maneuver. But they're both versus. So,
they both cancel an attack. So, maybe we
should just start off with the maneuver
then.
That's what I was thinking. Yeah. All
right. All right. Well, you assign it to
a person. Remember in this remember
maneuver and defend are lore master and
attacking and defending are manipulator.
But you also have your nature. You also
have your nature. Two. I have a two in
lore master. It's it's it's I have four.
I'm using my will or I'm using my uh
nature no matter what. So if you're if
you're defending or maneuvering, I'm
okay at that. But the attacking and
fainting not my strong suit. Um because
I'd be uh beginner's lucking which is
Yeah. or using your nature outside of
it. Yeah. I mean I could remember a
funny joke. Well, no that's not how
remembering works.
What happened yesterday? Ah, very good
memory. No, it's like was that a that
was was that a successful check nature
check when I did the the desk position?
No. Right. No, it is not. Cuz it's not
even against OB zero. It's just you
can't fail it or pass it. It's just what
it is.
All right. So, put put someone up for
maneuver. I don't mind if you want to
use me.
Um
I'm I Oh, I I don't know where these
I've never done this before. So Oh, it's
in the bottom right corner. You see
those little card deck? Yeah. You click
on that and grab the card you want. Did
you grab the card you wanted? I don't
know. I can't How do I see it? Okay. If
you hover over the deck, it says choose.
Oh, and then you pick one and drag it on
the on the You got to pick one of us
because there only three of us into a
conflict at one time. Correct. Um,
also remember who Oh, you know what?
Riddling is the exception. What? You can
riddle in the dark. You can riddle in
the dark. Yeah. You You get no penalty
to your actions when you riddle in in
darkness or dim light. Uh so I our best
lore master is uh uh Tain probably
booth be clear clear point of burden.
That was that was well done.
Uh and then for knowing your toolken for
knowing your toolk uh so maneuver and
then do we want to attack or do we want
to what do we want to do on our nest
after the maneuver? Yeah,
that's a good question.
Well, the idea is that maneuver is going
to set you up to do something for
whatever. Yeah, you should attack faint
or attack,
which would not be my strong suit cuz
that's manipulator. Well, I can do
maneuver, attack, defend.
Okay, I'll do uh I don't know. Yeah,
I'll do uh I'll go and I'll attack.
You said Derek has to use nature.
Wait, what's that? Uh, for beginner's
luck on uh like manipulator, I have to
use my nature even though like nothing.
Okay, so what would I be rolling? Just
will your sheet would tell you. Yeah, I
will. Okay, W or H. Yeah, W four then
for my will.
Do we want to um
attack or faint or I I don't I don't
know here. I'm I'm
Let's just wing it. Let's see what
happens. Uh yolo. Who's going last?
Faint is manipulator. Yeah. Or who's
what are your guys? Do you have any
manipulator? I have to use Will, which
is four. I have Yeah, I have two in
manipulator. But you can pick me if you
want me to roll with Will. Uh yeah, I
just want some input is I don't I'm I'm
not necessarily know what the right
thing to do here is and I I just feel
like um I mean if you screw up Derek
Yeah. No pressure. No pressure, Ryan.
Just you know what, Ryan, you're the
conflict captain. You're the you're the
riddle master. Just go with whatever,
man. Um, well, I just hope he doesn't
I hope he doesn't uh
uh
When in doubt, attack because it can't
ever be [ __ ] Oh, okay. So, there's
that. Well, I did. Maybe we can recover
whatever we If you're going to defend,
then I have to use uh uh lore master.
Lore master, which I only have a two in.
Um so, if you want, we can attack or
faint and I can use my will.
Uh, let's attack. Attack. Yeah, some
riddles. All right. Riddle me this,
Batman. I just don't want the the the
faint to get fought if we if they do if
he does something. All right. So, uh,
the the spirit flies up in front of you.
And we'll we'll continue with our uh
we'll continue with our history lessons.
And reverberating from the harp strings.
His guttural voice comes out, but then
comes out of the harp and this sort of
melodic notes.
30 white horses on a red hill. First
they chomp, then they stomp, then they
stand still.
Now, attack versus That's more of a
statement. Uh, now attack versus
maneuver is a versus. So, GM Scott,
you're going to be rolling uh this
because it's a versus roll. So, it's
going to be you're maneuvering. So,
you're going to make a lore master roll.
Okay.
Ready? So, this is some kind of um Am I
allowed to talk to him or is this like
We can we can help, right? So, we can
This has got to be some kind of teeth
joke, right? If if you help, you can
help with the riddle. Um teeth thing,
right? 30 white horses are teeth.
So, hold on a sec. I just want to make
sure I want to make sure we get this
correct because this is always the
problem. The roll type is versus GMC.
Okay. And you are going against its
nature, which is six dice.
But he told a riddle. So he gets plus
one dice and plus one success. So you're
it's seven dice and then he'll add a
success at the end if he's successful.
So that is the base. Okay. And is this
going to take one turn of the grind? It
does not. You're in a conflict. So the
whole conflict takes one turn off the
grind. Now at this point master four. At
this point you have lore master 4. Oh,
you are maneuvering which means you are
trying to sort of uh you know describe
how you again you could do it abstractly
but you know you're sort of using your
language and your sort of knowledge to
sort of set up for the next to put him
off guard to set him up for the next uh
action that you guys are taking. Maybe
you're more in not really telling
riddles but you're more intimidating him
or you know uh getting your group ready
to make a you know a really good riddle
in your next thing. So it's more
abstract. You're not directly attacking
him.
Okay. Um, so yeah, and you said if we if
we try and answer it, if you answer it
and you are correct, you will get plus
two successes. Not not dice successes.
Successes. But if you're wrong, you get
minus two successes. Okay. You say
something like, I don't know, like
depends on if the wisdom teeth are out.
Yeah.
Now, this is a maneuver, right? So,
you're not technically like full out
answering it. You're sort of being more
coal. That's what that's what my point
is like you're not answering but like
telling him like you didn't say it
right. Right. Right. That's the
maneuver. Exactly. Well, like I said,
that wasn't even a question. Yeah.
Right. There you go. It was more of a
statement. That that's more of the
maneuver. There you go. That's pretty
good. Okay. So, uh now, of course, Buffy
cannot help. He is afraid. But Saddak
and Karanos can help. This is lore
master. So, lore masteraster could be
helped with arcanist, lore master, or
theologian
or your nature if it applies.
Yeah, I'll help with my nature. Right.
Obviously. So, all right. Um I guess I
have with I have to help with lore
master then at this point. Well, right.
That was you going it's got to be Keith,
right? That's literally what you're
doing. All right. So, that's two helping
dice uh there, GM Scott. And uh and do
you want to give an answer? It's up to
you. I mean, I don't know if it's teeth
or mouth or something. I ask a question.
What is it? A riddle again? 30 white
horses on a red hill. First they chomp,
then they stomp, then they stand still.
Yeah. So, I don't know if it's like a
mouth or teeth.
That's my guess. I'm not even thinking
correctly.
That's just what
Buffy can't help.
First thing, what's the first thing they
do? First they stomp. No, you can help,
Dennis. It's fine. First they stomp,
then they chop, then they
too afraid. Yeah. All right, fair
enough. All right. Well, he wants an he
wants to answer quickly. So, get make
your decisions, you know, Scott. Yeah,
it's that's uh that's got to be teeth.
All right. Teeth. All right. Let us roll
the dice. All right.
Some of those look good. That's a lot of
dice. Oh, no. Not those are there.
There's a man. All right. Well, here's
that was fantastic. Oh, the six was on
him. Dang it. So, uh here's the deal. Um
he he he succeeded. Now, you get plus
two bonus successes because you were
correct. However,
however, it's not enough. You don't get
those unless plus two successes only
count unless you succeed. Yeah. So, even
though we answered, we didn't really
answer it on time or we answered it kind
of and so and because this is a real
conflict, I'm just going to basically
I'm going to count them anyways because
we're using this kind of weird variant
of the answer. So, instead of getting
one success, you got three successes.
Um, okay. But he got he got five
successes because he did tell I did tell
Riddle. So that means he beat you by
two. Okay. So basically virtually he's
like like you said he's like he's giving
this response and you're kind of like
you know teeth and he goes you can't
help. That's not the way that this
works. It must be honor bound between
each of them. Only this only this has
you know uh has any modicum of respect
and tensuality. Plus you guys threw out
like three or four words before you. Was
it teeth? Was it gums? Was it mouth?
Which one was the real answer? and
you're sitting here arguing semantics
with me, you know. Yes, you may be
correct, but you have not violate you
have sort of violated the terms of of
what this thing means. So, um, Tain, um,
so that was a failed lore master.
Correct. It's a failed lore master. All
right. And then, uh, you have to take a
point of damage, uh, Tain and, uh,
somebody else has to take a point of
damage.
No, I would say it's Mir. I would say
Mir Sally. Yeah, you I think that's very
appropriate. Yeah. You want
uh Oh, you you can take it.
Okay. All right. Coronal. All right. So,
next is Saddok. That's Ryan. He's coming
in with his own attack.
So, the the skull is continuing to be
He's trying to continue to be like, "You
you you do not even respect the ancient
ways of the way of the riddle. Do you
not know your Tolken? Do you not know
how this works? Did you not read
chapters uh five and chapters nine of
the Hobbit? Come now. Come now." And
he's trying to like basically argue
semantics with you. He's not actually
attacking you with a new riddle. He's
just, you know, uh uh explaining the
rules of the game. Yeah. See, he's
explaining the rules of the game to you.
All right, Saddak. All right. So, I'm
gonna use my nature. Okay. Cuz I don't
have it. Uh I am not going to tell a
riddle cuz I would have to look one up
and I don't feel like that's No, that's
not that I That is against the spirit of
this. If you have to look up a riddle,
yes, I agree. This riddle book,
give me a riddle that'll [ __ ] Derek.
Yes.
I I could whisper one to you. This is
versus Yep.
Uh, yes. Yes. This is attack. This is
the same thing we just had, but now in
reverse. Yeah, exactly. Uhhuh. Uh, I am
going to channel my nature. Oh, okay.
So, you're going all out. So, it's like
one of those situations like Ryan's not
telling a riddle because Ryan isn't a
good riddler, but Saddak tells the
[ __ ] riddle of all riddles. He goes
super deep in on his halfling nature and
he's just like spinning this epic tale
where he's using terms of phrase and
witty little on, you know, like little
witty little uh um a double andandraas
and he's just creating this absolute
banger of a riddle and we will never get
to know what it is because we're just
great.
And some of these things don't even make
sense unless you're an athlete. This is
technically a manipulator uh role. Uh,
so anybody can help this with
manipulator, hag, haggler or persuader?
I am definitely all in on manipulator.
Okay. Um, let me think here. So,
persuader. Persuader.
Oh, yeah. So, I might, you know, uh, uh,
Saddak has been um, uh, thinking about
what he should say and he and I tell him
um, and sort of what GM Scott was
thinking. I think it's a good idea. Is
it like, "Oh, get get them one of those
uh those halfling jokes. This got to be
some kind of elven spirit. They're not
going to there. No way they're going to
know that." Perfect. I'm just going with
a little persuasion here. Get him with
that that good halfling joke. Got it.
All right. So, that's a die of help
then, Ryan. Yes. Yes. To ask him the one
about, you know, the the thing crawls
out four legs in the morning and and two
legs in the afternoon and three legs in
the evening. He's a floating skull. He
will never get it. Exactly. He doesn't
even have legs. Right.
That'll definitely work.
Yeah. H. All right. Well, that's the
second die of help then. Saddakok.
Sadak. Um. Oh, I want to use one of my I
want to use my quick wit, but I'm now
debating on how I want to use it. Okay.
Um,
I
will use it against me. Maybe I don't I
I I'm too quick with it. I I I I think
I'm just naturally good at it. So, I I
go for like a a weak one rather than a
You don't You know what? You don't
respect him enough as a riddler. You're
a halfling. You're like, I got to bring
it down a little bit for this guy. You
know, I'm so smart and I'm so clever
that I'm just going to be like, you're
going to be like, "Yeah, you know what?
You're like, "All right, guys. I got it.
What is the beast that walks on four
legs in the morning and two legs in the
afternoon and three legs in the evening?
He'll never get it. He's an idiot.
I was thinking I think this is going to
come up. Uh, wait. I got to use this.
Totally going to work. Yeah, it's an
idiot. Yeah. So, actually, you you clear
Yeah. Clear that. Ryan X that. So, you
didn't use Yeah, it's going to give you
a check. Okay. And then I guess I don't
have any. I'm going to I'm going to make
it difficult for you here, Ryan. Yeah.
Oh, this is a versus test. So, if you
want, you can give minus one die to your
roll and get one check. Or instead, you
can give him two dice,
you won't take a penalty, but he'll gain
two dice and you'll get two checks.
Yikes.
I think these zombies want to camp. What
are we currently at? Uh, dice-wise,
right? Two. Seven versus six, but this
would turn into eight versus eight,
actually. Let's do that. Okay. So, then
what you're going to do Yep. There you
go. For my opponent. Perfect. You got it
right.
And then that. So that should go up to
eight versus eight. Correct. When you
click off of its Yeah, you got to click
off of it. Oh, maybe he did. Yeah, there
you go. Eight versus eight. Perfect.
Evenly. Perfectly even. Let's do this.
Perfectly balanced like all things. All
right. Because the worst is he just gets
like a like a benefit. Right. Right.
He's just manipulating. Yeah. Exactly.
All right. All right.
Maybe it'll be a big big Maybe it'll be
a huge roll. Lots of sixes for us. Come
on.
Hey, I am going to
spend my uh luck. Okay. Oh, to reroll
the six. So, there's one sit. So, that
goes down by there and it goes up to
here. And then um
can I No, I I I guess that's it for now.
No wises. You don't want to reroll?
Well, how do I do the wises? Uh what are
what are your wises? Uh need a little
thought. I I I realized Oh, wait.
There's something here I can do better.
So, so what you can do then is you have
two options, Ryan. Before you use your
luck. Yeah. What you can do uh is you
can use a deeper understanding, spend a
fate point and exclaim, "Aha, I
understand now." And explain what you
got wrong, use a wise, and that'll let
you roll one failed dice. If you spend a
persona point, you can exclaim, "Of
course," and explain how you had it all
wrong, but now you understand it. And
use your wise to roll all of your failed
dice. I mean, I'm going to go for it. I
have the point. Of course, I realize
this that that this uh uh I uh he that
I'm telling this riddle, and I realize
he there's a wisdom like the skull
emotes uh an expression of, "Oh, I I got
this one. That's an easy one. And then I
get get him with a twist. There you go.
Of course, he wasn't expecting this.
I was just a little bit of salt. That
was the bait. Uh there he took the bait,
right? So, what you're going to do then,
uh what you're do, Ryan, is you got all
three. Reduce your persona by one and
your total spent increased by one. And
then you're going to check the persona
to gain wisdom. And in your case, you
had four failed dice, Ryan. Okay. So,
you're going to reroll all of those.
Nice. Now Ryan, are you allowed to
explode these? Yes. So now Ryan, if you
use So you just rolled three sixes
on that luck roll. So your character has
an 18. So now if you use luck and spend
a fate point, you're going to explode
those three sixes plus your initial one
six. That'd be four exploding sixes. Do
it. Wow. It's every six or it's all the
sixes. All the sixes. Wow. It's
phenomenal. So that's what Persona is
for. Well, yeah. Well, in this case,
Persona in this already, this already I
think I think I don't think it was at
seven. I think this this is correct. I
had I you marked it already. So, yeah.
So, just tick the sixes up from one to
four. Ryan, now remember on this roll of
sixes, any further sixes continue to
explode. Oh, nice. Oh, do you see where
it is, Ryan? Let's go L5R. But I think
it's actually this. Yeah. Okay.
No, one more. All right. One more. So
you have four successes plus three
successes plus one success is a total of
eight successes on an attack versus
maneuver as the halfling spins this
incredible riddle. And the the the skull
starts to laugh and that's when Ryan
says you didn't let me finish. You
didn't let me finish. He's like and then
walks on 18 legs
when it is dead. And he's like what? No.
And he's like, "Clearly, you do not
understand your astral your astral
panology. I am clearly speaking of some
[ __ ] up beast from Pathfinder 2.
Didn't you not read Bestiary 3?
You do not." I channel the multiverse.
Yes, I channel the multiverse. Um, you
do not know your astral from your hole
in the ground. Exactly. He's completely
He is completely
All right. So, good, Scott. So, that
means he gets nothing for his maneuver.
Nice. And he is going to suffer. That's
eight versus three. So five points of
damage. One, two. That's fantastic.
Four, five. He is down to four of nine.
One. Yeah. Four. All right. Well, that
was uh not as good as seven as nine.
Seven of nine. Not as good as seven and
nine. Kronos looks at his thinks about
his joke. He's like, "Man, this is
terrible. That was nowhere as good as
the halfling's joke." Okay. It's an
attack versus attack. You guys are both
just going for the riddle. All right. Uh
I got I got to get a riddle here. Uh
independent or less. Come on. Yeah. This
is independence. Both of us just
riddling at each other. We're just
screaming. Even if he knows it, it's
still better to tell one. Yeah. Um I
mean, I have one. It's just not good.
One doesn't matter,
right? Well, no, because if they know
the answer, then they get plus two
successes. Oh, yeah. This is terrible,
but I feel like I have to tell it. Okay.
My kids like this one, so I'm just going
to go. You should go for it. Go for it,
Bob. And if it fails, you can blame your
kids. Oh, yeah. Again, my kids know this
one, but
what goes up but never comes down.
Okay. His riddle to you, Bob. Now,
remember the honorbound traits, right?
We're we're just it's just because one
Bob,
what can you put in something to make it
lighter?
Okay. Okay. So, Bob, we're both going to
get plus one to our dice rolls. Okay.
So, uh I'm going to roll mine first. So,
that's going to be 6d6 for my nature.
Mhm. This is just an attack versus
obzero, but I get a bonus dice because I
told a riddle.
So, I got one, two, three, four
successes. So, I'm going to be dealing
four points of damage.
Geez. Bob, you get to make your
manipulator test, which will be my will,
which would be beginner's luck. Okay.
Uh, you can add two dice of help because
GM Scott and Ryan can help you. Okay.
You get to add a bonus die because you
added a uh
uh uh you told a riddle. Okay. So you
should be rolling that plus one one more
bonus dice. Just other dice, I guess.
Other dice. Yep. And then you can go
ahead and roll that and Okay. So nothing
else goes. Okay. So it's okay. What
about the harp? Uh the harp just gives
you precedence, but riddles the
precedence of he could have told his
while playing it for extra musicality.
All right. So Bob, you got four
successes as well. So you're going to
you're going to kill him. Uh unless you
we could tell the riddle. Uh answer the
riddle. So I have to try to answer this
riddle. What goes up but never down?
What goes up but never down?
Your age. That is correct. All right,
Bob. You want I assume yours is helium
or air or something like that. No, that
technically would make something
heavier, but I mean that that's kind of
not the answer, but Oh, I was thinking
like you put air in a balloon and then
the balloon rises. So therefore, it's
lighter. That's because of displacement.
You're actually adding mass to it.
You're actually adding mass to it. All
right. But obviously obviously Can I
yell the answer even though it's too
late? Yes. You can idiot.
It's nothing. You put nothing inside. It
makes it Yeah. Or you could put a I was
thinking you can put a hole. But that if
you pull put a hole in something, it
makes it lighter. You put a candle in
it. So it's lighter inside the bag. All
right. But here's a light bulb. So
here's the good news. I got yours right.
So I'm going to do six points of damage
to you guys. But even though you got
yours uh you got yours wrong, you still
kill me. So Oh, wow.
But I'm going to do six points of damage
to you. So
concessions, two,
three,
four, five, six. Six. It was a pir
victory. This the pirick riddle.
Great. This is [ __ ] great. That's
That's the name of the episode. This is
fantastic. Um thank thankfully I I had
mine ready to go. Yeah.
Uh, I don't I don't know what happens.
Why didn't you defend, Ryan?
Um, and watch. I'll go to my kids and
I'll be like, "What's a good riddle?"
They're going to tell you one that I'm
like, "I tell that one all the time."
And I Yeah, I just can't remember them
all. That was the only one I could think
of the top of my head that I know I tell
my kids all the time and they love it.
You tell it to them all the time. How do
they continue to love it? Oh, they
because they think because they know the
answer. They're like, "Oh my god, we
know the answer." Just like uh like uh
what gets wetter as it dries. All right.
A towel. Yeah. Yeah, sure. Just My kids
love these ones. Like they're they're so
fun to them. Um
Okay, here we go. Um
if both sides are reduced to zero
disposition on the same action, the
conflict is a tie. Neither side wins and
both must offer their opponent a painful
major compromise. This is a very
dangerous outcome.
Even on a riddle, they give you a Well,
obviously I can't kill you on a riddle
conflict, Bob.
Um,
all right.
So,
the uh the suggestion for the
compromises here are things like
conditions. Obviously, those don't
really mean as much to you guys. Um, but
loves those
might. Um, so
you guys didn't win, but you can extract
a major compromise from this guy.
So way out. So yeah, so there there's
obviously let's let's think a little
bigger than that, Bob. Uh okay. I mean
that would definitely be one of them
that you would probably want to get
start. That's a good that's a good
start. That is a good start. Should be
included. Okay. So one of the options
here is for the GM conference is the
adventures terry too long or they give
up something precious in the
consequence. So, my my compromise is
that you guys are going to be made uh
that the riddling contest goes on and on
and on and on and on and
when you when all said and done, you
guys are at it. It's been a full four
turns of the grind and the grind occurs.
Wow. Okay. And during that time, you
guys are made all from from the, you
know, from the the long exhausting
riddle. Everyone's made exhausted.
So that's what I'm offering
as as my compromise like that. And then
do we also take another condition for
the four turns of the clock? And in
exchange for Yes. Damn.
Um I'd be afraid and exhausted. So in ex
unless you eat, Bob, you can eat while
that's right. because you can eat food
right away basically. Yeah. In exchange
in exchange
he will let you out.
He will he will teleport you out. The
zombies will not attack you. Also good.
And he will give you three of the five
treasure rolls that you get if you beat
him. I don't know if we can even take
any treasure. Well, we could always
exchange. I could drop some. That's the
offer. That's what he's asking. That's
what he's offering. You guys can counter
back decide. We It's a compromise. We
have to negotiate. This sounds like
another riddle.
Let's enter another conflict. Uh
the Amos. If he tries to get exhausted
and he can't, does he become injured?
Yes.
If you gain a condition, I'll be right
back. No, that's no problem. Um Oh, no.
Okay. No. No. I'm sorry, Ryan. No. If
you gain exhausted and you're exhausted,
you're just exhausted. If the grind
happens and you gain a condition that
the grind would give you and you don't
and you have that condition, then you
take the next condition on the grind.
And if you have that condition, you take
the next condition. And if you have that
condition, you take the next. I'm
definitely going to eat some preserved
rations here.
Swig of water. I'm going to drink my
water. So, I I think we take this. I'm
going to drink my water and I'm going to
drop my thing. Does Tana have anything
to drink that we can take off him? I
don't see anything on his Does anybody
have I'm gonna say that because Tane
doesn't have any
quick rations on him. He can't eat in
the middle of this conflict. Yeah. Damn.
That's going to be rough for him, but it
is what it is. So, my as during my my uh
our riddling, I had my I become chap and
my I take a drink of water from my Yeah.
Yeah, that's all good. Uh gut bottle and
All right. So I I cleared angry or
hungry and thirsty then become hungry
and thirsty again from the grind and
exhausted from the riddle contest. No,
if you guys accept this. Oh, I think I
think Yeah. I can't think of a better
negotiation. Okay. Well, in that case,
yeah, we're going to go straight to the
grind then. Mhm.
Um and yeah, so torch is out, right?
Yeah. Obviously, your torch is out. Um
I'll add another one. Yeah.
And uh you guys
lose hungry and thirsty and then gain
hungry and thirsty again and then uh uh
everybody also becomes exhausted,
right? So the net net should be that GM
Scott should be angry and exhausted.
Well, he's going to get grinded. I got
to see what the He'll be It'll be
hungry, thirsty, angry, and exhausted.
Yep. Yeah, but the grind order doesn't
go in that order. Oh, is it afraid for
Actually, he's in luck.
The thing after hungry and thirsty is
exhaust. Oh, no, he's not in luck. I'm
sorry. He becomes exhausted from the the
the conflict and then because the grind
occurs, he would become hungry and
thirsty, but he is hungry and thirsty,
so he would become exhausted, but he is
exhausted, so he becomes angry. There we
go.
And then after angry is sick, and then
after sick is injured, and then finally
afraid, and then dead. The grind goes in
a different order than on your sheet.
That's right. I keep forgetting that.
Well, they do that to sort of toss it
up. Also, I like the idea that the final
thing that your character becomes is
afraid. That's like the final thing.
Like, because you're just like alone in
the dark, hurt, injured, crawling
around, barely able to stand up.
All right. Well, the skull is a promise.
The skull is a man of his word. Yes. If
you go in here without the harp, it's
basically you can never escape. It's a
TPK because you can't unless you figure
out a way to talk to them. I don't I I
don't I don't know how to mark it, but I
have I should have two checks. Do I mark
another thing? Is that what I do to
designate a check? Uh yeah. I mean, I
guess technically No. No. You mark it on
your traits, Saddak. Yeah. Which trait
did you use? I used the uh
PL the success for the player. The is
that do I use is it what? What trait was
that? Uh quick quick witted. Yeah. Mark
two additional traits on it. Okay. So
there. Okay. So that's how you do it.
Okay. Yeah. Exactly. Um,
all right. Uh,
okay. Roll on loot table three.
And then check to make sure that GM
Scott getting back uh didn't screw up
your live where the cameras are.
Oh, sorry. No, it's all good. Okay. I
didn't know if if it switched their
location because Ryan switched with GM
Scott on my screen for Zoom.
Oh, did he? Yeah. Weird. It didn't
change him for me. Um, perfect. Then,
uh, GM Scott, so you become, uh,
exhausted and you are also now angry.
That makes sense. I should never have
been able to guess my riddle. Uh, yeah.
All right, here we go. Um,
so taking a drink of water probably be
good.
Maybe. Depends on when you guys are
planning on camping. I don't have any.
Pretty dang. Yeah, that's what we get
back on the map. Yeah.
Okay, here we go. Um, well, uh, Booth,
why don't you start us off? Roll 2d6 on
the loot table.
Oh, your nothing joke remind me of that
one that that one riddle. It's like,
what does the poor have, the rich want?
What I forgot the last part of it is.
It's like, what do the poor have but the
rich want?
But oh, and if you eat it, you will die,
right? Nothing. And that's the joke.
Answer nothing. I love that's a good
riddle. All right, this is this is fun.
Um,
that would have been funny if both of
our answers were nothing. We both hit
the riddle. Roll a d6, booth be.
Ooh. And then roll another d6. This is
hidden elven armor. Oh. Oh. Am I allowed
to wear it? This is for dwarfs only.
This is leather armor, but it is elven
leather armor made of elves. No, this is
elven crafted. Um, it will have its own
unique name as it is forged with imbued
with craft and care. The wisdom of the
ancient maker resonates through the
weapon itself. These armors are
typically um they are fashioned in the
skill beyond the mortals. Uh, if a
wearer would be killed as a result of
violence, the armor will absorb the
death blow. Wow. It will absorb a death
blow even if the armor itself was
already damaged or used during the
conflict. The armor can serve this
purpose only once. In addition, the
quality of the armor allows the bearer
to roll the armor or effect die once per
conflict.
So, uh, you guys are going to get a
sweet suit of elven leather armor, like
some sort of ancient elven. Uh, does it
help? Does it matter if you're health or
not? Who gets it? Me. Anybody? Anybody?
We're just going to sell it then. Well,
Tane, you you you can't use uh you can't
use leather armor, but bummer. All
right, roll uh 2d6 then. Uh Ryan,
I'll have to make some sort of token for
that leather armor. In the meantime,
we'll just bring out this leather,
this suit of leather.
I mean, I missed the specifics of the
armor, what it what it does, but I'm
Well, it's leather armor, so there's
that. Um, and then if you would die from
violence, it can absorb the death blow.
Gotcha. Once. And it also lets you roll
for its effect. So, the way leather
armor works is uh once per fight when
you take damage, roll a d6. on a four
through six, it absorbs that point of
damage. And so basically, this would let
you reroll it once per conflict. But
then also, if you would die, the leather
armor can absorb the death blow once.
Starts taking off his leather armor,
assuming that he's putting it on. I
rolled I rolled a six, so I rolled a
six. Oh, that's another one. Another
suit of elven. Yes. Wow. Actually, no.
No. No. We'll go with a weapon. Three.
Roll 3d6. Ryan,
come on. staff because it's lame. [ __ ]
Wait, what? Ryan, I just didn't did a
macro, right? 11. All right, you find an
elven spear.
Sounds impressive. Only there were a
spear user here. Yeah. Yes.
Unfortunately, I like this harp and my
bow too much. I do not think a spear
would be good for me unless it
specifically needs to be wielded by
elves. No, no, no. Someone else might
take a better use of this spear.
Um, pass leather armor grant plus one D.
This has a unique name and will grant uh
a specific wise
when wielding it. Spear wise, this
confers this wise when held. This
wielder may use their wises as if their
own and it does not count against their
maximum number of wises.
In addition, um
the if it's like an orc, you can't if
it's like orc wise, it means you you
can't necessarily use it. Um and in some
cases, it can be extra effective.
So, I'm going to make I have to make you
a magical spear that does something
cool. I Mr. Theurge, you can take this.
I don't know if the rest of the party
is, but you did so much for us and you
bear so many scars.
Oh, there's there's no scars. It's just
bleeding. He's like, I can't I can't
hear you. My ears are bleeding. Um,
he noticed that you weren't in that
riddle thing we just did. I had one
ready to go. Did you? All right. All
right. Test me out. Test me out, Dennis.
Let's go. Come on. Or you want to save
it? You want to save it for the next
one? Is that what it is? I didn't say it
was I didn't say it was a good one.
Okay. Okay. Um, yeah, please. But I will
I will give him the he can take the nice
spear and I'll take the the other one.
Just carry it. A cart overturnth,
spilling forth a score of peasants upon
the border twix two kingdoms. Where
shall the survivors be interred? I think
he's You don't bury survivors.
I've heard this airplane joke with
America and Canada.
[Laughter]
You do not bury survivors. Um, tell the
flaming skull that. All right, Bob, give
me a roll of 2d6 to determine your loot
total. Right. They're like, "Oh, they're
not dead. You raised them and that's
where you do." All right, Bob. 2d6. Come
on. Come on. The other 2D6. How do you
[ __ ] up 2d6? I pressed the first one. I
saw seven. Click. All right. Treasures
and valuables. Bob, roll 2d6 again.
Yeah, these are treasure tables. I said
square ones. It's random. I didn't
decide it. I just coins. Bob, roll D6.
Come on, copper. Come on, copper. Come
on. What does a skele think? All right,
it's silver. But
I was hoping for copper. And just this
this this skull is like just like pissed
off because of this riddle. All right.
Well, that's a lot. Six heaping piles of
silver are also yours. I do have uh I'm
just saying if those were copper, it
would have been 12. Yeah. Wow.
Well, copper takes up twice as much as
silver and gold takes up half as much of
as silver. So, I will get rid of my jug.
Oh, no. Jug down. A jug.
Jug down. Fantastic. Uh, I'll hold on to
the normal mundane spear. Can hold two.
I also called one more if I get rid of
my water skin.
Um, I also could hold the sack in my
hand if I want to get fancy here, but
rather not
want to toss this sack, but
um, let's see. Two, five.
What else you guys got?
Can I put a pile of silver in my pocket?
No, pocket can only hold things that say
pocket. Yeah, like you could hold a
silver coin in your pocket. Uh like or a
small one gem, but like a This is like,
you know, this is a Oh, it says pack one
up there. Yeah, it's pack one. So, it's
it can only go the water skin for now.
Okay. Here comes the jugs. The water.
They're empty anyways. Throw it down.
[ __ ] it. My water skin is full of undead
salt. Um
Okay. Is there what's in my pouch? I
can't tell. So, wait. So, Saddak, you're
taking the regular spear. should be
right. Hold on. Little regular spear.
Okay. Your your little belt pouch. You
look all the way down to the bottom.
It's got Wolf's Bane in it. Oh, I
thought that was Okay. Yeah. Yeah,
that's right. I was just gonna, you
know, leave my regular spear. I can
throw my wolf bane then if you want me
to take some more silver. Well, that's
what uh Saddak is saying. He's saying
he'll take your spear. Oh, booby me. And
then you can have the magic one. The
elephant spear.
Wolf Spain. I can put this um Goodbye.
Goodbye. Fun useless stuff. We need
Well, we we got bags to hold. I mean,
you also do have a small bag. Yeah, but
then I have to I have to put it
somewhere. I have to hold it or Well,
remember um Well, no, that doesn't
really help you. But, um I'm a
two-handed wielder. I mean, Amos also
has two bags. Um Oh, Tane is already
carrying a bag of gold.
Yep. I'm not setting down the goal to
pick up that wolf spane. All right.
Well, in that case, this will get added
to the stuff that you guys have also
thrown away this session. Um, yep. So
wasteful we are. Bob, you're letting all
this just go to waste. Wow. I I really
like money. No one drank that water
before you threw it away. I drank that.
That's just I just moved it off my
That's deleted water. Okay, you guys
can't delete. Um uh hungry again. So,
but
Well, I thought we were going to camp
soon. We might. We are. So, we need to
So, the grind is fresh, right? So, we
have a full clock now, correct? You have
a full clock. Let's get back on the map.
Oh, where is this? Where's this guy
going to put us in? At least let's get
out of this room.
All right. Yeah, exactly.
He goes, "Well, it was good riddling
with you." All right.
Nice riddling.
Have fun storming the dungeon. Have fun
storming the dungeon. All right. Um, and
then you are back in the hexagonal room
with the waning light and the ancient
pillar. How far are we away from a camp?
Let's not do that again.
Well, we have to go out into the Hall of
Statues and then beyond the Hall of
Statues is the empty hallways. And at
that point, we're on the map. Let's
Let's do that before we start to camp
then. Yeah. Well, I mean, we could camp
here. We know it's relatively safe. We
should go back to our We should go back
to good camp because I will have a We
can't get there until we get to the map,
right? So we go back, we get back on the
map. Well, that's true. We have two. We
have what? Four. Cuz if we Yeah, that's
we make our dungeon rolls. I get a free
check to reduce her. Yeah. Okay. Amos is
right. So, let's Yeah. So, let's make
our checks that we need to make to go
through the hall of statues back to the
empty hallway since we're on the map. I
can still use some chests as well. Yes,
I think a lot of us can. Ryan didn't
give me a turn.
Well, he greedily did it all himself.
Yes. Um, okay. Well, you guys then leave
from here and you head into the Hall of
Statues. Yep.
Unfortunately,
it's gone. Other party was already here.
As you enter into the Hall of Statues,
there is a
something big or some the golem's out.
Familiar face.
standing guard in the stat into into the
hallway. Hey, let the who let the golem
out? Who let the golem out? O
uh Aaron.
Oh, he's so much smaller than he used to
be. Yep.
He's so big again. I hope he caused them
no end of trouble. All right, so uh the
golem. Now remember this is a large
massive hallway. You know think about
this thing as being like you know half a
football field long. You know these are
big massive statue type things. Um right
I mean you remember he doesn't see
movement. Um right we made something up
about that. Uh but remember that the um
you know the the the base of these
statues is like as tall as a human you
know. So like the the the scaling there
for Tain next to the statue is kind of
you know kind of accurate in that
respect. Um there is though there's a
massive statue of the massive animated
golem. The stone golem is now standing
watchfully in the hallway scanning left
and right with its beamed eyes sort of
scanning into the darkness. Um you do
have a torch going. So So why is the
Saturday group so damn dangerous to
everyone in the world except themselves?
They're freeing the demons. They're
letting loose these golems.
We are the safe group. They are the
careless group.
Oh, who's more responsible now? Look,
you know, easy mode.
Yeah, they just free stuff and walk
away. Whatever. All right. Well, you
need everything. You need to get past
this to get back into the hallways,
which will put you back on the map.
Yeah. A a runaway conflict. Well, it
doesn't have to be a conflict. Depends
on what you do. We are. If we just go
dodge, duck slowly. Yeah. and avoid its
gaze. Yep. Can we see if the doorway to
its room is still open? Mhm. It would
almost have to be gone because it
wouldn't have fit before
cuz it was just a small He must have
bust through the door. Yeah, it's hard
to see, but yeah. I mean, remember you
do have a flickering torch light, but
it's behind one of those plinths, but
yeah.
Wondering if we can like
mage hand like a room. No, no. So, so
actually Booth B cuz as you take a
closer look
um h
make a scout check booby.
Yeah, cuz I know there was that glowing
rune inside the room. This will be
luck. Yep. Can I assist him? Yes. In any
way. Looking for a way to disable it or
Well, you don't really know what he's
looking at for say, but I'll say this,
Jim. Scott, you can help because of a
lore master, which is not normally
something you can have with scout.
Uh, is this independent? Uh, yes. It is
independent. OB one. Oh, nice. Let's say
I don't want to help or don't need to
help, but there's any traits you could
use against yourself.
That's true. Are there any traits you
can use against yourself? Oh, I got one
for you, Dennis. It's I'm pretty tired,
probably. I was going to say you're
touched by the gods. The blood. You
can't see that good because you got
blood coming out of your [ __ ]
eyeballs. You're literally touched.
You've heard of road rosecolored
glasses? Uh, you know what? Yeah, we'll
we'll go with that. Sounds good. Blood
colored contacts.
Uh, so this is a
no against. All right.
And then you'll add a check for your
touch by the gods. Right. All right.
Let's see it.
Oh, and you succeed. All right, Boothy.
As you begin looking, and of course,
remember your torch is, you know,
torches aren't, you know, exactly
flashlights. Um, as you look deeper into
the hallway, you you're it's almost like
more like you recall something. You
notice something, Dennis. You, Amos, had
paid very close attention to this.
This isn't the statue that you fought or
that you encountered. In fact, as you
look, you see that where there used to
be a statue on one of the plints, now it
is empty. So they activated and as you
look at this statue very briefly ever so
slightly maybe because of your stigmata
which is flowing through you you see a
faint shimmer of bluish energy crackling
through the statue. The same kind of
blue energy that you've seen in other
places in the dungeon such as on traps
and pits and things of that nature. that
powder that we got. And that powder that
you got. And as you kind of take that
in, you notice the beginnings of slight
flickerings of blue energy on all the
statues in this chamber. Oh. Oh, Jesus.
They're all turning on. They like, you
know, the powder and just like Do we get
like a
coated stuff? Is there a way to figure
out what it turns? It is. Turns out it
is magical cocaine and uh cocaine of
golem control, right? Cocaine of golem
control.
All right, you guys decide what you're
going to do real quick. I'm going to
grab another soda and use the restroom
real quick.
Restaurant break sounds good, actually.
Yeah, sure. Why not? Everyone else is
doing it.
We all decided
drink.
Every single room is like a like a
[Laughter]
I feel like like it's a live or die
situation. I've never felt that in any
other game. It's like I'm afraid to do
anything.
Yeah. I mean, you know, we always talk
about like, you know, what is a game
about, you know, like what is a game
good at or what does a game do, you
know, and uh, you know, I think that
obviously my style is is very well, you
know, uh, designed well for for for this
type of game, but like yeah, it's this,
you know, it's a it's a grind, you know,
it really puts you on the spot and lots
of choices. Yeah. You know, so I think
it's uh, if I recall,
was it slowm moving?
Uh yeah, I would say that that's uh
accurate.
Yeah.
What's happening here? If you do a sneak
check, is it like for the whole group?
Is it one of those things where you do
it one pool to represent the entire
effort? Yep. And you do it due by the
person that is the weakest at it, or do
you pick? Neither. Okay. It's It's going
to increase difficulty based on the
number of people or something. Exactly.
What are we doing? Um I think we I just
I don't think we add deactivate it. I
don't think we try and fight it. I think
we just get sprint out of here.
The question is either do we run and and
do what the humans are good at or do we
sneak? What the what I'm good at? I
would say we run too long. Um, it
doesn't look like we have extra time
here. Yeah. Is it blocking our way?
Yeah. Oh, yeah. I mean, it's it's it's
guarding the the hallway. So, um, yeah.
Go through its legs. Yeah. So, it ar
wondering if we could distract it
somehow, like, you know, mage hand dwarf
in or shoot an arrow down the hallway.
Make Yeah, I mean, those are going to be
options. Obviously, I had thought maybe
of taking some of that dust and
sprinkling it on the golem to see if it,
you know, hampers it or turns it off,
but maybe it'll just extra power. Well,
I can do it from here. What we know what
we know about the the dust is that it
gave Carnalis a little bit of like
precedence. He was able to see
an action in the future, right? I don't
remember. You stub your toe. You took a
little bit of it and you saw like a
brief glimpse of the future. You stubbed
your toe and then you came back into
into the present and you and then you
basically like let's not go there. I
actually don't remember that. I don't
remember that at all. That sounds Yeah,
you were on something, Ryan. That's you.
You were on that magic dust. I swear I I
I this might not.
I mean I it could have happened. I
totally don't remember that. Yeah, that
that that's but it sounds like something
my character would do would be snorting
the magic dust for sure. I did not write
it down, so maybe it didn't have but I
swear there was something about it like
but yeah. So, um in your guys's case, uh
sneaking the whole group two adds two to
the ob.
Yeah, it sounds awful.
I feel like we just got to run and then
like Yeah, slide. And if there's any
type of way we can do distractions,
awesome. I don't know how right now.
just, you know, banking our office off
the roof and, you know, have a go.
I mean, if you guys want,
you could engage it in a flea conflict.
Now, the only reason I say that is you
guys might get to make a lot more
checks.
No, bonus successes and passes and stuff
like that. Now, obviously, you guys are
exhausted and hungry, so you'd be
getting minus two to this. It's not
You're not in a really great position. I
mean, you guys are you guys have stacked
up quite a few conditions, I think. Um,
but you know, don't like the idea of
compromise. I think we have enough
checks. We have six. Yeah. And I have
like basically besides my recovery, one
thing I want to do in camp. I have um
let's see here. I'm looking at
Come on. Where is
Well, the only reason Well, I'll I'll
save I'll save my I'll save my piece. I
saved my save my piece. I'll save my if
we So, what I'm thinking is
if we try and sneak by it somehow and
blow it, right, we're going to be in a
conflict of Derek's choosing, not ours,
right, Dennis? Whereas, if there's a
reason you're the GOT, buddy. Yeah,
that is right. I could
think I could give you success
with a condition of cost. Yeah. Yeah.
But I could also twist and if I twist
into a conflict, you are right booby. I
get to choose. Um what about what about
me like um using that like you guys
talked about singing having power? Like
could I sing something uh maybe to this
golem? I mean we are in this elven
temple here. Is there like a song of uh
slow as we run through its leg? Is there
a song of speed as we can you know speed
ourselves up? Is there uh something to
that would distract or slow these uh
golems down? Some song of um ancient
times of rock and stone.
I don't I don't again I'm not the best
with the singing of the elves power. I
mean singing you know the elves the song
of the elves does have a certain you
know power. So we've established that
and you know you guys sing the stones to
sleep. Well the only thing I know about
is singing right now with the undead.
Yeah. Um, but you know, I am this
firstborn elf and maybe I do know
something about I just it's weird that
we would use a lot of stone here, but
this is an elven temple. Um, well, if
you'd read your T and Bob, you would
know that the original elves actually
built all of their stuff underground.
There we go. So,
um, so, um, I'm just it's a thought. The
chunks of rock in this area. Yeah. Um,
they vary in size, I assume. When you
say the chunks of rock, what do you
mean? Well, I'm looking at the rubble on
the ground here. or the pieces of statue
arm and all that. Yeah, there's broken
off pieces. I mean, some of them are
probably the, you know, size of, uh,
gravel and grit and some of them are
probably, you know, maybe hundreds and
pounds, if not more. So, um, what I'd
like to do, yeah, uh, is what you'd like
to do or you what you're doing. Well,
okay, this is what I'll do. when I
suggest or right before I say run,
um I'm going to pull a scroll out of my
uh belt pouch. Okay. The scroll of
ethereal appendage. Okay. And I'm going
to grab the largest piece of rock that I
can pick up with that. Okay. And I'm
going to move it down the hallway ahead
of us. Okay. To try and distract the
golem with that first. Got it. So you're
you're you're making running behind the
ambulance type thing. Yep. Running
behind the ambulance golem chasers. Uh,
all right. So, you And if it takes the
bait, then I'll just yell run. All
right. So, you can pick up. Casting time
is free. Yeah.
And vaguely luminescent trend tentacles
extend from your finger for one turn.
This allows you to appropriate make
appropriate skill or ability tests at
ranged. It can be used to lift, carry,
and manipulate objects at a distance as
long as you can see the object. uh if if
contested, test the appendages nature
too against that which would oppose
them. And it and the thing that made me
think I might be able to lift a big rock
is because it one of the options is
raise the lid of a sarcophagus, which is
notoriously heavy. Yeah, that's totally
fine. Um I have a I have a stupid
question. Yeah.
I'm wondering if these golems activating
is tied to the unsealing
ritual. if these are some kind of
defenders like hey clock's running down
we're going to need some uh maybe oh to
protect against the demon
all right so Jim Scott long shot but I
don't know interesting so this is going
to sound a little strange okay but I am
going to have you make I think so this
lets you make the test at range yes
right so what I'm going to let you what
I'm going to have you do is I'm going to
have you make like you're like you're
kind of trying to be stealthy, but like
not stealthy. You're trying to be like,
you know, distracting. Yeah. Like I
don't know, maybe like like criminal or
manipulator. So, you're making that
check at like range, you know? Does that
make sense? Okay. Yeah. Criminal. Okay.
Do you have that? Do you have that skill
at three? You have that skill at three.
Yeah. Why the [ __ ] That's why I mage.
Okay. Okay. Yeah. So, you know, it's
almost like, you know, the throw the
stone, get them distracted so you could
pick their pocket type thing, except
you're able to do it with a really
massive rock and hurl it, and you're not
distracting a guy, you're distracting a,
you know, 20 foot stone golem. Never
attempted to pick the golem's pockets
before, but let's try. All right, James
Scott. So, this is a So, casting it is a
free action, but making the check is
not. Does that make sense? Because it
lasts for one turn. So for this one
turn, I'm allowing you to make this
distraction action at a far distance,
keeping you safe and avoiding any sort
of conflict. So the turn is going to
occur. Make your criminal test. All
right. And criminal. This is going to be
against his
his criminal test.
He's not a criminal. His he is not. So
this is outside of his nature to say the
least. Excellent. So, he's going to use
half of his nature dice.
Hopefully, it's wits and not health.
Well, he doesn't have those. Um, so this
is against this is going to be against
two round up. So, three. So, it's again
three dice. Okay. So, versus test. So, I
have criminal versus three. So, right
now it's three versus three. Correct.
Now, this is a criminal test and you're
distracting the golem with this big
heavy rock. So, people can help you, but
they have to do so in a way that again
makes fictional sense. Yeah. All right,
guys. Anything? Um, so you're trying to
throw this through the legs or throw
this and we're just just moving it out
in front to make it chase it. So that
I'm imagining, you know, he's hurling
the rock to the far side of the chamber.
The golem's going to be like, "Oh, what
was that noise?" And you'll come over
there and have a little exclamation
point and go look in the corner and then
you guys are going to, you know, try
behind and then eventually pass.
Correct. Well, then I would like to uh
uh try to attempt to do what uh someone
else suggested, which would be to uh I'm
going to follow your stone with an
arrow. Try to get some more noise into
that corner. That's not just the stone,
but maybe more of um again, I'm just
shooting an arrow at the same direction
he's pointing. Add a die of help, Jim
Scott. Ready? Also, Jim Also, Jim Scott,
add a die for supplies.
Ah, okay. because you're actually using
something to distract him, not just like
going, "Hey, over there." Well, I have
criminal. Great. That's good. But I just
don't know how to use it. Um, well, he's
throwing rocks. Yeah. Can I throw a
small rock?
That's not going to help when you're
against this kind of big guy. If
anything, that would If anything, that
would hurt. Yeah. Plus, it's on the It's
like literally like 100t away on this
side. Yeah. He would turn back and look
at you guys. Yeah. Yeah. You can also
help with you can also help criminal
with scout. Um so maybe you wait, you
know, you tell them the right time to go
or something like that. Yeah, that makes
more sense. I'll use I'll I'll help a
criminal with scout. Okay, perfect. And
I'll well I can choose it later. Can I
synergize now or you have to synergize
now? Synergize now. So I will synergize
spend the fate. Okay. Oh, so one help
one synergy. One help, one syn. It
doesn't really matter from the outcome
of your perspective, GM Scott, but yeah.
Um and you are still afraid Amos. Um,
you can help Amos even if you're afraid.
You can you still use You can't help but
you can use wises because that's aid.
Just as a FYI. Yep. Uh, nope. Okay. I am
of no help. James Scott force be with
you. All righty. So, I'm five dice
versus three dice, guys. Um, I'm half
tempted to
Yeah, I think we need this. All right,
here we go.
Well, there's a lot of numbers in there.
I am glad I did not. You have a six in
yours, too, but it doesn't really Yeah,
but I don't have any way. I don't have
persona. Ah,
so you did not use a trait, GM Scott.
No, I did not. So, this is a tiebreaker.
Okay. So, what that means, Jim Scott, is
you have an option. I could give it I
could give it to them. Yeah. So, here if
I want to check,
right, two checks. Fate rerolls the
sixes. Jam's got fate does reroll the
sixes. I don't know if you got any
sixes. Yeah, but um I don't know if it
matters if you beat it by one more. Like
I don't know. I mean, we succeeded. So,
well, no. No, you didn't. We haven't
succeeded. This is a this is a versus
test. Oh, then you might want to use it
then to try. Well, wait. Uh you can do
the We just before a fate spend to
reroll one dice. Well, if you
No, no, no. A fate die to reroll one six
only apply or failure only applies if
you have a wise.
But you can use the fate to reroll the
six as like an exploder, right? Correct.
Well, what are your wises? Puzzle
wises. You said that as if I had more
than one. Oh.
humans only get one wise. They're not
particularly smart.
Um, this is one of those situations
where the books are terrible. And I
guess you could spend just the fate to
roll or six.
Okay, it's all the way at the beginning
of the GM section for some odd reason.
Okay, here we go. Um, if you tie GM
Scott,
you can
uh
you can tag a trait if it gives you
bonuses, which it does not. Um,
spend a persona point to try to roll
more sixes. If you rolled one or more
sixes, spend a fate point to try to
reroll them. D or use a trait to break
the tie in your opponent's favor and
earn two checks. Yeah. Uh, no, no, no. I
don't think Do we need the checks or do
we need Not that badly. Yeah, I didn't
think so. Damn it. All right, I'm gonna
spend a fate. Come on. Fail this so bad.
Come on. Out of the cards. All right.
Well, the good news is we go in this
order. So, right now we are at the if
you rolled one or more sixes, spend a
fate point to reroll them. So, that's
where we're at. All right, James Scott.
So, roll 1d6. Well, no, it's you it's
it's on your sheet. You can do You can
you can go within the everything that
you need to do from your thing is
available through your roll tab. Uh
which one is that? Luck. Deeper
understanding. It is luck. Luck. That'll
even let you subtract your fate and add
it to your spent. It'll subtract it from
your current. Add it to your spend. I'll
go put it all back. I did that manually.
Oh, you you don't have to reo it, but
All right. So, luck. Here we go. Let's
roll luck. 50%. So, you did not tick up
how many failed dice you have. So, you
rolled luck one zero. So, just make it
luck one.
Oh, there it is. Okay. Never had to use
it before.
Like that. I didn't see a single dice
roll.
All right. So, roll luck. Yes.
All right. All right. All right. All
right. All right. All right. All right.
All right.
Okay. Well, well, that was lucky. That
was lucky. So, the test works. A turn
passes
and
don't ignore that one. Yeah,
not yet.
Um,
and the golem is distracted, moving over
to the side, giving you and your group
time to quickly shoot up the hallway and
sneak past it before it turns its
attention back towards you. uh your
distraction is sufficient and the
creature is sufficiently large that it's
not too much of an issue and you guys
are able to again very stealthfully and
very uh quickly and cleverly make your
way out and back into the twisting
hallways and on the map. And you are now
back on the map. Nice. Happy camp
everybody. Yes.
Uh so this is not the one in the
dungeon. No, this is the one outside.
Fresh air. Got it.
All right, there is no This is where I
go. And this is when you discover that
the well has been filled in. There's no
All right. With one action left before
another tick of the grind, you guys use
the map, obtain the untrusting. And with
uh your torch flickering, you make your
way quickly back to your camp where
there is the sacred presence of the
whatever. Mhm. But this is going to
camp. So we do have to make a camp
check, right? But uh we we also don't
know how many phases we got left for our
ritual thing. Well, this is another
phase. Would have been three. So this
would be four. Yeah, because there was
the adventuring phase. Now we're in camp
phase. That adventuring phase of three.
This is this. And then were the other
groups using phases in this too or was
it No, they don't use phases.
They just do what they want. Well,
remember they are on a different time
sync than you guys as well. So Okay. I
yeah I I well I had I was under the
impression that it was five phases
between both groups. No no it was not.
Okay. Okay. Um makes me feel a little
bit better. Okay. Okay. Okay. That makes
sense. This is our fourth phase. Yes.
Yes. This is the start of your fourth
phase. All right. So you guys chose your
camp. I know the danger level and uh you
do not have to survey cuz you're here.
Do you want to light your fire? I assume
you do. Yes. Does anyone want to keep
watch? Remember this gives you a plus
one bonus to the camp events role.
Higher rolls are better. Camp events.
lower roles or worse. If you have
someone taking watch, you get plus one.
If more than one character is on watch,
the others may help you when if you have
to test to avert a disaster. But if you
are on watch, you may not make recovery
tests. You may not memorize spells. You
may not purify your immortal burden. You
can do other things such as forge for
food or repair armor or whatever, but
you cannot do any of those three things.
If the result of the camp event is a
disaster, if you have someone on watch,
they may spend one check from the party
to avert the disaster by making a test
or a conflict. If they are successful,
you may go to camp. If they fail that, a
disaster occurs. The camp phase ends
immediately. All checks are lost and you
return to the adventuring phase. I feel
like we got to wing it. I think we all
need to recover here. So, Amos, yeah,
you're not watching, Amos.
Well, Amos, what? What? What? I would
have been the one looking out and I'm
not doing that this time.
Okay. Well, in that case, yeah, I think
we need to yolo this now. Luckily, um
you guys already have a camp with uh
survivor. You already made your camp, so
you get a plus one. And you do have a
ranger in your party. So, so that is
plus two.
Uh so, that's going to be a plus two.
So, I'm going to roll it. Uh plus three.
I am I shall utilize what? What's going
on? The
uh
Granted Huntress's Wisdom. We got I got
for the Oh, yes. Piousness in town. Your
piousness in town. Yes. The wisdom of
the huntress. Nice. I forgot about that
completely. Sweet. Plus three. All
right. Here we go. Roll some peasant.
Yep. 3d6. Best peasant ever. Or greatest
peasant of all time. 15.
That sounds good. That is good. You
should see what happens when you get
above 18. I think we did once, didn't
we? Maybe. I think we that I think it's
how we got the temple. The crown or the
temple or Yeah, something like that.
That sounds actually right.
All right. 15 15.
All right. Um Well, your site already
had water, so this does nothing.
Okay. Well, it's better water. Yes. Um
sparkling.
Yes, it has a You find an additional You
find an additional freshwater spring
granting water. The camp is flooding.
There's too many. There's too many
springs. Um increase. So what we what we
wait did we get screwed because I used
the bonus? Uh probably. Yes.
That's funny. Technically that's funny.
Uh let's see what it would have been.
Recover all your conditions. No worries
to anybody. No, no, no. Nothing so good
as that. Uh wilderness. Wilderness.
Wilderness. It would have been
lovely view.
Oh no, sorry. Verdant Wilderness. You
would get a plus one dice to hunter,
fisher, hunter, fisher, or scavenger
tests in camp.
I mean, it's better, right? Nothing
crazy. Yeah. All right. But, uh, here we
are, and you guys are in camp. So, as
you guys get into camp, you have a fire
going. Uh, there's no events, so
instincts trigger first. All right, I
will do my ctographer check, right? And
this is what, two, three. Now, here's
the problem. How many rooms? You're
exhausted. So, this is gonna cost a
check. Oh,
you're all exhausted. Oh, yeah. It's not
gonna free. That's brutal. It will still
count GM Scott as using your instinct,
but it will cost one of your checks.
Same with Saddok if he wants to cook.
Oh, I'm cooking. I think we need Saddak
to cook. So, how how many checks do we
have total? Well, you have one, two,
three, four, five, six. Okay. Yeah. All
right. I think I have to update the mag
as one. Okay. Well, you have a check
anyways, Jim Scott, so you could use it
regardless if you wanted to use it. All
right. No one can tell you how to spend
your check. Photographer. Now, since I'm
using it as a check, can anyone help?
Uh, no. Because it's an instinct. Even
though Okay. Even though it's not free,
right? If you wanted to treat it as an
instinct. Yeah. So, independent OB. Now,
you could do it not as an instinct, Jim
Scott, but then you won't get that fate
point for using your instinct. Sure.
So the ob is uh two two. Okay. Umer.
I'm not going to use trait although I
could. I could use You cannot.
You're angry. So you can't use
beneficial traits or wises. See, I'm not
used to having all these conditions.
Amos, how do you do it?
Yeah, you guys are pretty messed up
right now. You have 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 conditions. Maybe maybe I go first
here because I I I'm I want to ask some
things here. Well, no, this is the
instinct, right? Right. My instinct goes
first. Oh, to cook if I cook. Yeah, that
only clear hungry and thirsty. Hungry
and thirsty. But I can marry make Well,
yeah, but that's fine. But but that's a
check. That's not an instinct. That's
something separate. Gotcha. Yeah. You
don't have your You don't have your
instinct to do that. Ah, so here we go
then. Here's like your instinct could be
whenever we get to camp, throw a [ __ ]
party. But like full of Oh, yeah. Zero.
Oh, boy. What map? No. Do you know
Scott? I'll give it to you. Okay. You
just got to take something else. It's
not a It's not a success. It's a
failure. It is a failure. So, I'm going
to give it to you. But, uh, the only
thing that the only thing that makes
sense, Jim Scott, is as you start making
the map, your hand starts shaking as you
realize you are so close now to the end.
The demon about to be unleashed. The
power of the the dragon sorcerer still
awaiting you. Fear grips your heart and
you are made afraid. And I'm still just
first level. Yes.
Uh but you also get to mark a failure
for your photographer, which I did. Yep.
Yes. And mark your feared or condition.
Afraid. There you go. Okay. I got four
out of the four out of five uh
conditions. Got them. Got them nailed.
All right. All right.
I am spending
my I am going to spend a check. Yep. Uh
to
and a fresh ration, I imagine. Yep. You
have a fresh ration? Oops, I do. Okay.
Uh to feed the party. So, yep. All
right. Well, you're starting with fresh
ration. That's one for a small group.
That's one. So, that's a OB two. Uh uh
is it independent or independent
obverse?
versus is only when it's like against a
creature been up too. All right, right.
Yeah. Okay. Uh so I would I've been
brainstorming this entire time about
what it might be to have the undead
salt. We we we came out with it. You got
to season salt is salt. So you're going
to use the undead salt on this? Yeah.
I'm going to ask if someone will give me
some of their salt. Yeah. You take mine
off me. All right, Bob. Okay. Oh, no.
No, I don't have any on me. He doesn't
have any. You can have mine. All right.
And I am going to take
the
uh You get a bonus for supplies. Yeah.
So, bonus for supplies. Y and also uh
I'm going to use this uh garlic. It's on
my neck. Well, that's also plus one for
supplies. They don't stack. So, you just
Okay. So, just a one. Yep. All right.
So, I'm just going to use assault. We
have so much of that. Yep. Um I I can I
can use traits, but I they I don't get
checks or anything like that, right? You
can use traits, but you can't use them
against yourself in camp. You can't earn
tricks in camp, but you are not angry.
So, you can use a trait beneficially to
yourself. So, yeah. So, I'm going to I'm
going to channel my hidden deaths. I can
do this twice. I just just once. Oh, you
can do it twice per session. Yeah. Yep.
Yep. You're pretty hungry.
Um
and uh is no one can help me because no
one has an instinct or anything like
that. Correct. Um, and
I will channel my nature to later
because I want to use my other moon.
Okay, I think that's everything, right?
Yep. Yeah. All right. Up to
uh, looks good. Got it. All right. So,
everyone is fed. Everyone remove hungry
and thirsty. Beautiful. Thank you. Which
is probably good because I think if you
failed that, you don't have you barely
enough rations to feed the party. I
think that would have been like the last
of your rations basically. Oh, yeah. So,
did I did I take these stack at two? So,
I have to take down one of these fat
rations, right? Uh, which one? The
fresh. No, the fresh. Yeah, just take it
down by one. So, decrease unit macro.
Yeah, there you go. Now, I have a
question. That's instinct. Yes. So, now
that's done. So, that cost a check. So,
you guys should be down to four total
checks. But, looks like you guys are
still So, we're all angry. Most of us
are angry. Well, hold on a sec. Somebody
didn't subtract a check or Well, I I
didn't clear my check because you do.
Well, oh, you only get so many
beneficial uses. Mhm. I was keeping
track of how many times I'd used my
wizard site. Okay. Yeah. So, yeah, I
just cleared my check. Oh, I don't have
any persona. Okay. Well, I I think that
seeing everyone is and how all these
things we we all want to make. Well,
thanks. But you can't go next, Ryan. You
just going to check. Oh, that would have
been the order to do our our instinct
stuff. Oh, yeah. So you could have
cooked and then I could have done my map
and then you could have done your merry
making. Yeah. Which is what I want to do
because it was But as it is, someone
else needs to do something now. Yep.
Something that won't interfere with his
merry making. But I have to clear angry
first. No, I have to clear. You have to
clear in recovery order. So angry first.
Angry first. But that's what Ryan is
saying is that if he makes, he can try
to get rid of your anger.
I mean
that's the only thing to do unless I
give my check to Well, you can somebody
else
you have to clear a does not have angry.
Yeah, you can clear afraid. So Amos has
a check though. He can just use his
check. Yeah. Yeah. What do you want to
do, Amos? You want to pray or whatever?
Uh yeah, I got two things I want to do.
I need to purify it, which is going to
be free here at this camp. So that
doesn't spend a check. That doesn't help
you. Uh, so I have to spend a check. Oh,
you do? Okay. So, no, no, I mean
there's no check spent to purify here
because of the Right. But I they need
someone to spend a check. Spend a check.
So, I can spend a check to try and get
rid of afraid. Right. But what they're
saying is ideally you wouldn't do that
because if Ryan is successful, the
merrymaking will clear afraid from
everybody and you would with his check.
Do they clear afraid or angry? No. Clear
both. Angry. Oh
[ __ ]
That's that's the only thing we need to
at that point. Well, no, but there's
other things that you could do in camp.
See, one of the things is like you can
also use camp to do things that help
you, not just recover you. Yeah. Oh,
we're not used to that cuz one of the
things I wanted to do, which I might
just I might just not. It's fine with
unless unless unless I just decide I I I
can't I can't live with it. I came out
to figure out what this is. I'm just
going to take a bump. One of my things I
was going to do spend a check on if I
had it was to investigate this. Well, to
be fair, your goal was to figure out
what it is. It didn't say that you had
to be the one who did it. Yeah. Yeah.
So, give your check give your check to
GM Scott. Let him figure out what your
powder does. Yeah. Because our the
arcane stuff, right? But that's going to
he's going to What can he not do because
of that? He has he can't do no
beneficial traits. Yeah. So, he's just
going to have to he's going to have to
just straight make a straight up like
straight straight up lore master check.
Yep. Which I think he's probably pretty
good at. I'm doing that. And then and
then I might need to have someone give
me a check so I can marry make right.
Yeah. All right. Well, I can give him
one of my checks. So there you go. So
Coronal Coronal take down a check. GM
Scott Saddock gives you the the powder
and you begin investigating it and
looking into it. So this is a lore
master check because you're trying to
figure out this magical ephemera. Um
people can help you know if it's part if
it can help in the merrymaking. If you
are not angry if you are not angry you
can help him with arcanist, theologian
or lore masteraster.
If I'm not angry. Well,
wait. Not angry or not afraid. If you
are I'm sorry. If you're not afraid.
Yeah. Okay. I can help him with you said
archinist.
Lore master. Archinist or theologian.
Okay. Lord master. Gotcha. Now, this did
come from the elven temple. Yep, I did.
Um, I haven't seen this particular uh
dust before, but uh something similar,
you know, wasn't golems, you know, it
was uh uh different rock creature uh
from the best 2 and Pathfinder as well.
There you go. Slightly different shade
of blue. Yeah. Ceruan. All right, Jim
Scott, go ahead and make your lore
master check. OB three. OB three. Nice.
This uh this might require me to be very
thoughtful here. Unfortunately, you are
angry and you cannot use your traits
beneficially. That cannot be thoughtful.
You could use them against you, but that
don't help. I could and that more
checks. You can't use them against
yourself in in camp.
Can't generate checks in camp. No. All
right. So, it's OB four versus a three.
Uh, you're helping. Wait, wait, wait. OB
four versus a three or four dice versus
three. There you go. But then I'm
getting help. So, that's five dice. Yep.
There you go. Yep. Um, good luck. Yeah.
What about uh gear supplies focus? Uh
I've got the D. If you I'll tell you
this. If you use up one of the three
charges, that will count as supplies.
May I be worth it?
That's up to Ryan. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Sure.
Yeah. Yeah. All right. All right. I will
consume one. Okay. I'll just do a line.
See what it does. Yep. Okay. All right.
Here we go. Oh, boy. You might have
needed that. Wow. Think I just got it.
Oh, against you. Yeah. All right. So,
you you you you you use a portion of the
dust and experiment with it. You do a
little alchemical process to it, GM
Scott. You work over it. Um, and after a
lengthy period of time, you discover
that this is dust of
animation golem control. Okay. It is.
You could have used it to try to that
golem. Well, we we can now use it
against the uh in the future. There you
go. Uh but that is what it is. It is it
is uh it is gold. It is basically
animating
material or magical dust that's will
animate whatever you sprinkle it on.
Stone material all righty. It's kind of
Oh, whatever we we have to sprinkle it
on them. You sprinkle it on consume it.
No, you don't consume it. You sprinkle
it on them and then it will come to life
and you could control it. Or if it's
already made of stone, you will gain
control of it. Or if it's already Yeah.
already animated, right? And it'll it
and the it will last uh GM Scott it one
dose will last for one turn. Okay. And
two doses will last for the phase. Nice.
Okay. Sounds like we have some helpers.
Yeah. All right. We have enough for one.
I guess now that's a pass for your
master. You know we have it. We have two
doses. So that's enough for a phase. I
keep forgetting to synergize with lore
master. Dang it. Um you can synergize
Bob if you want to. Woohoo.
Just remember subtract the finger. Yep.
Did that and pass. All right. All right.
Next. Saddock. And you can now. Yeah.
Yeah. I want to seems a reason to
celebrate. Let's party.
[Music]
What a celebration with Pat today.
All right. Um, so now keep in mind your
party is angry, exhausted,
afraid.
Ryan, this is going to be OB five. Holy
[ __ ]
We need a big party. This is This is a
hard group to get them celebrated. Quit.
Uh, you can use it. You You're You're
one of the few people who can use it.
Yes. Uh, I am going to I don't have any
persona, so I can't help anything with
this, but I can't channel my nature.
Nope. Um, you're not going to tell that
three legs, two legs, four legs. 18 legs
joking. Are you I'm gonna ask Carnalist
to play us a two a gonna get to I said
I'll pull it out but I might have undone
and uh can we drink some of your booze?
Uh Amos
Amos, you want to sacrifice the rest of
your wine? Yeah, that's fine. All right,
that'll be supplies. Ryan. Okay,
deleted. Uh Amos, you are not um angry
or but you are afraid you can't help.
And Tayan is afraid he can't help. So,
you guys are basically so like shaken
and exhausted that like they're trying
to get you to celebrate and you guys are
like, "Please, I don't even want to join
you. You're like, you know, I'm still
trying to recover from starting that
dust, right?" You're like me on the
third day of Gen Con. I'm like, "Please,
just go away." So, so is it is it
daytime, night time? Uh, it's probably
evening. Okay. Yeah. So, I do get help
from the instrument. Yes. It's called
It's called gear or supplies. Yeah. Oh,
from the instrument. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
Okay. gear. I'm doing this more as a
help. Okay. Okay. No, no, no. He's
helping you with it. But he's saying,
"Can you give him the harp and he'll
play it?"
You're going to use my harp? No. I was
going to have you help me play. I was
going to sing and dance and talk about
and regail all of us about the we just
did on a check. You can get bonus. You
get one bonus die for supplies. That's
something that's consumed. He's using
the wine for that. That was the
supplies. But you can also get a bonus
die for gear. Oh,
yeah. Why don't you play that, too?
Okay. I mean, I we've I've I've we've
played some a little bit of instruments
back at the at the bar. So, Coronalas
will sing and you will play on your harp
while everyone drinks and you try to get
them to celebrate and maybe it's a maybe
it's more of like a a soft melody to try
to ease their spirits and their I sing
the song from uh what is that? Fifth
Element.
Oh, all right. Minus seven. They're
doing the dance.
All right. So, there you go. I mean, you
guys are tapping into everything you
got. Don't get shot. And it's it's uh
what's the five? Yeah. So I've got quick
wit. Yes. I've got uh help. I've got a
gear and a supply. Mhm. So 7d versus
five. And I'm just going to burn as much
of my whatever I can do. Your fate, your
luck, and your wises. So yeah, but I
don't do that until after the roll. You
don't do that till after the roll. The
only thing you can do before the roll is
spend persona. Okay, we're just need
one. No sixes. So no sixes. So, do you
have a wise that you can use? Uh, I
mean, a little saltwise. You're getting
a lot of the Please explain to me what
what you do. You You know what? You use
salt
undead. You know what? I I will I will
say this because you use the undead
salt.
Oh, in the in the in the in the No, no.
Yes. Activates it. Exactly. Bob, the
harp activates it and Ryan, you get one
room. I'm feeling that. Yes. It's like
you're you're you're the it's
internalizing the the music and you can
feel the voices coming from within you.
The music is coming from with inside of
you.
As he scatters the salt, the harp
activates it and these tiny little
skeletons dance around the fire to the
amusement of everybody. So, this is
deeper understanding. This is deeper
understanding. Need a little salt. Wise.
Mark of fate. Rroll one fail die.
You have a deeper understanding. Since
they consumed the undead salt, the harp
will be able to resonate with it. So,
all right. Come on. Please be a sick.
No.
Oh, for not. Yeah. I would have been so
good. I would have been for
you know it's times like this
singing cries out into the night playful
of the harps and it's just a it's just a
it's just a gay old time
but the spirits of the crew of the
Sunday crew are are hard to to to to
buoy after such go difficult and trying
times. games. And that's why it's so sad
and disappointing when the group of
goblins led by a bug bear
ambushes you in your camp as we twist
out of your camp as you're drawn by the
music and the singing, the powerful uh
the powerful urge, the powerful music
fills the night air, but it also draws
in the goblins and the bug bears, which
you guys actually did know about because
you saw those footprints many many years
ago. Actually, Federic crew actually
fought some goblins. Drove them off a
little bit. But uh unfortunately, the
concealment of your camp is not enough
with the music and the merrymaking, the
drinking, the singing, the music
playing. And alas, your concealed camp
is found in the evening hours by this
band of goblins led by a bug bear who
enter into your camp in a twist
conflict. I told you to just shut up.
So, I'm going to change my uh goal.
Did you get beat up by goblins or
whatever these are? Well, the good news
is it's 9:00, so we have to we're going
to end here. Uh well, so we're going to
start next time with a we're back in the
adventuring phase and it's going to be a
twist into a conflict. Nice. Uber might
like show up in this. Oh, will totally
jump in like
it's like I followed these guys. So,
does this then ruin the rest of our
checks for camp? Yes. Yes. Lose all
checks. Yeah, it's really brutal.
lose all. I told you that halfling
singing, playing that harp. Oh, it was
the elf singing that did it. Yeah, I
shouldn't have sung that song,
man. Oh, this game.
You know what? Actually, I'll say this.
Depending on how well you do in this
camp will determine. If they break, if
they can, if as part of their compromise
or their success, if they drive you out
of camp, then your camp is broken. If
you guys can drive them off or kill them
without like having any compromises
where you have are forced to abandon
your camp, then you can keep your camp
checks. Can we do a convince our uh
conflict to have them join the party?
You could if it wasn't a twist. But
because you're twisting into it, I get
to pick the choose. Yes. But if they had
just shown up in a normal situation, I
might allow you that opportunity to talk
to them. Yeah. But uh this is a twist
and they're here to to to do. Now, I
will say this. If you succeed and
depending on what happens and you might
then be able to use an action to engage
with them and try to, you know, be like,
"Hey, we have you defeated, you know,
you're surrounded. We have you, you
know, bound. Work for us or die." Oh, I
I I didn't I didn't I didn't mean join
the party as like join our group, but
join the merrymaking. It's like, yeah,
come on in.
Oh, interesting. All right. Well, we'll
go with that as a It depends on how well
you do in this next conflict. I'll say
that
right now. You've got a group of goblins
and bag bug bears who come in. They see
this drunk, weak, weary, small party who
look pretty shitty and beat up and they
are basically like, "Cool. Look at them.
Look at their sacks bulging with silver
and golded too. Easy prey. Easy prey."
Um,
by the way, for people at home, let's
I'm going to cut over to the inventory
screen. Yes, this is what we got like
six or seven stacks of gold, silver.
This is like the best we've done. We've
got one. We've got the magic harp, the
magic armor, the magic spear, the the
hell, the [ __ ] crown, the jeweled
gleaming crown of the lord of law law
sits upon this. We don't even really
care that much about the wealth. We
demon
this is the first time that we have
collected treasure that wasn't given to
us out of pity there.
To be fair, some of that treasure kind
of came out of pity because you both
lost the riddle conflict at the same
time. So, you could argue that was a
compromise. It was a comp. He did. He
did. He did lose. You just lost, too. It
was a It was a draw. It was a draw,
right? Exactly. It was a draw. Well,
this is going to come as no surprise,
but we're going to go ahead and uh we're
going to go ahead and go around and uh
do rewards. He thinks a lot of the goals
were not successful, but you guys did
make good progress, so that is that is
good stuff. All right. Uh Karanas, we'll
start with you. What was your belief? I
will always have my friends back. That
really didn't come up. I agree. It did
not come up. What is your instinct? my
instinct to trigger your head when
exploring new area and I that's when I
got and you succeeded help. Yep. Okay.
So, you do get a fate point for that
Corona. Mhm. And then your goal was to
convince a spirit that we are worthy of
the dagger. Well, you were trying really
hard to make that happen. So, you get a
fate point. Oh, okay. That's right.
Because you get a fate point as long as
you made progress or working towards it.
Yep. So, you get a fate point. All
right. Uh Ryan, what about you? What was
your belief? What was Sat's point? I
believe the group needs me more than I
need them. M uh the the biggest thing
was probably putting all that effort
into the uh into the middle that I
basically spent all I put all my effort
and uh like
uh halflingness to because I you know I
spent the channel but was that really
about you showing the group that they
need you more than you need them because
it felt like you were most almost more
like you know like kind of like being
like I step up and you know like I'm I'm
I'm part of the team here. We're
riddling together.
I see that. Yeah. So that's what I'm
only reason I'm saying is like the
belief I don't know that the belief
really triggered one way or the other.
It just doesn't seem like that action
was really in line with that particular
belief.
Like a moment where you're basically
like I don't need them, they need me.
Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. True. Okay.
So, the only thing I think of is maybe
the the not smart use of
Yeah. I don't think I don't think it
really came up. So, your instinct was to
feed the group. So, you did do that.
Yeah. So, what's that? It's a a fate
point. Fate. And then your goal
was to find out what the dust was. You
succeeded. So, you get a persona point
for that.
Uh Jim Scott, what was your belief? My
belief, I believe I made some progress
on it. Uh my reliance on others
highlights my weakness in magic. I gain
when I gain enough power, I will no
longer need them. I felt that remember
you have to what action like what
concrete action did you take? I I felt
that his use of his arcana skill and his
lore master, but also the the spell to
be able to move the golem and and uh and
get through that without the help of the
party. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah, you
typically probably would have done it
without us, but Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that
that was a step towards him being more
self-sufficient, more powerful than
magic. For sure. You haven't really cast
too many spells this uh game, so you you
your belief that your magic is going to,
you know, eventually make you more
powerful than them, I think came up for
sure. And you did you took an action
like a deliberate role with that uh
ethereal appendage spell. Okay. What was
your instinct? And is that fate? That is
a fate point. Okay. My instinct
triggered but you failed. Correct. So
you don't get the camp. So you do not
get the point. Yeah, you gave it to me,
but I didn't. But yeah, you still
failed, right? So you don't get it. And
then your goal, acquire the dagger. We
didn't do that, but you made progress
towards it. So get another fate point.
All right. And then Amos. Oh, and
Gallows humor. Oh, yes. You did have
your gallows humor. Get a fate point for
that as well.
And Amos, what was your uh Amos had a
weak session. My belief is I am the
defender of the defenseless. Yeah, that
definitely did not come up. I didn't do
nothing. You didn't do nothing. You were
you were the you were hesitating about
going in there on into the teleporting
room. You were like, you know what,
booby, would you you the fact that you
hesitated? Are you are you thinking
maybe you've changed your mind on that
or
uh Amos was more concerned about the
ritual like we don't know where we went
to. The needs of the many outweigh the
needs of the few. All right. Got it.
Okay. Okay. A bunch of a bunch of
veterans. We got the whole town back
here. Got it. Got it. That that was that
was the reason for the got it for the
hesitation. All right. So, no belief.
All right. Uh your instinct uh tend the
wounds tend the wounded and when we get
to camp. Nope. All right. And then
couldn't use my instinct anyway.
Uh reseal the demon of the ancient world
away. Well, it's up to you. Did you Did
we make any progress towards that? I
don't Well, the only thing I would say
is we've been really We're running down
the clock on it for sure. Yeah, that's
true. If anything, you've made
anti-progress. So, no, you didn't make
any progress on that either. No rewards
for Booth B at all. Um here here's the
progress I've made on it. We have to do
it next time.
Well, well then next time you'll
definitely get that point. Um and then
MVP who made the single biggest role.
Now that I do think was Ryan, but that's
what I was thinking. I was thinking
Ryan's riddle for sure. Critical. Yeah.
So that's that's a persona point for
Ryan. And then critical. Yeah. It was
critical. And then um team teamworker
who who really laid down the line and
sacrificed a bunch of stuff and you know
kind of you know used their gear up.
Remember it can't be Ryan cuz he did it.
T I I think Tane did cuz Tane Yeah. used
his check to help my
in fact I definitely don't think I my
belief was I channel my belief because I
relied on you relied on the personal
help obtained to get my goal right. So
okay I definitely did not get it. So in
that case, Ryan, do you think that that
was a big moment for you where your
belief might change?
Yes. All right. In that case, you earn a
persona point, but you'll have to change
your belief in line with that sort of
new realization of how your beliefs are
changing, which I have to brainstorm,
which is fine as long as you do it by
next session. And then Jim Scott,
teamworker award for you. So you get a
persona point. Awesome. Yeah. I also
feel like makes the dream work. Well, I
feel like T was helping on a lot of
roles today. Every role I feel like he
And yeah, and also pretty good at that
thing as well. So yeah, I know Amos
Amos
to be fair booth be it is kind of hard
to help when you know blood is pouring
from your ears and your eyes. So you
know being afraid sucks if you weren't
so afraid and angry. The worst part is
the worst part was a bunch of like
ritual and theologian stuff was what
could have helped.
Those are only skills that you have.
Yes, that's right. The good news is when
you go into this conflict, you'll only
get the minus one for being exhausted.
You won't get the minus one for being
hungry and thirsty because you guys did
just eat. But also just so brutal that
we like finally got the camp. Like
finally we get rid of this stuff. You're
like, "Oh, by the way, now we're back in
conflict. F you." It's a little It's a
It's I I feel bad about the sequencing,
but it's okay. I mean, it is what it is.
It's kind of feels like, man, I'm
getting beat up by Bob. I'm getting beat
up by Derek. Just session for me. Kolc's
ganging up on you. I'm sorry, buddy. You
know, listen, my duck is a pancake.
Yeah, the fact that you the fact that
Macander of Half Bay died under your
watch is like, how does Mckander die?
Like, what's his damage reduction like?
Nine. Uh, seven. I mean, it might as
well be. Didn't he have a roof fall on
him? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's the
answer to that riddle. Yes, that's a
riddle. I should have asked. Yeah. How
does Mander die? How do you How do How
do you kill Macander half? But Bob told
me all about the story. I would have
known the answer. How do you kill a duck
in plate mail? You dropped the roof on
him. Well, and a helmet. Great helmet or
whatever. Yeah, he had a helmet and
plate mail. Yeah. Um, we recovered the
body, right? He did. That's Well, right.
But I also Well, I I heard about the
magic items and how there was greed
involved. It was It was just like Yes,
it was a very good dra it was a very
good Dragon Bane story. I really
appreciated it. Um,
so but I mean but uh GF, you're not in
that game, right? You're the one person
from Sunday crew that's not in that game
right now. Yeah, cuz laughing is in that
game as well. Yeah, he also died. I
killed two of our players from our
torch.
You know, I I will say this time is all
wrong. I haven't killed anyone in
torchbearer yet. Technically, we killed
off Saturday cruise mage in a retcon
because the player left and we just
didn't replace him and so we just said,
"Okay, he died." But um but uh but yeah,
no, technically I haven't died. I
haven't killed anybody yet. So, and
who's wearing the magic leather armor?
Karan loss maybe maybe you'll die in
this fight. Karan loss the leather time
to activate it already. No, but um so
yeah. So next time we will uh and we'll
have to go right now. But guys, but I'm
going to stop the recording. But uh for
those of you at home, uh we are probably
coming up here the last handful
sessions, right? The the demon is
awakening. Um, this group is
theoretically uh very close to getting
the dragon bone dagger, which will
potentially allow them to uh um uh
confront the dragon sorcerer Poria and
potentially end the threat from that and
the awakening of the ancient halls of
Foundation and the threat that lies
underneath. And uh you know, at this
point uh those of you have watched both
episodes know that the uh the dungeon is
getting pretty well explored. Um
although each group has faced threats
that the other group has never seen or
can has only heard rumors of. So that's
always pretty cool. So it'll be
interesting to see. And of course if you
watch Saturday cruise video, you have no
idea. You know what the [ __ ] is going on
with them. Nobody knows. Um so we'll uh
we'll catch up with these guys uh next
time. Uh of course uh we're going to be
uh actually everybody but Ryan is going
to be at Origins next week. So, uh,
we're going to have some fun there and
and when we get back, we're going to
finish up here this torchbearer campaign
over the next, um, probably over the
next, uh, month, month or so, month and
a half. But, uh, yeah, I'm I've been
having a lot of fun. And this kind of
session and yesterday's session, which
from the Saturday crew are like why I
love this game because it just gets to
these really crazy unique interesting
places that the the the rules push you.
And as Ryan was saying, think very
eloquently during the the session, it's
like, man, every room, every test, every
check is like a is like a nailbiter, you
know? There's no there's no freebies.
There's no gimmies, you know? And that's
if only there were six ticks of the
clock, you know, right? And in fact, you
can go adventuring in the wintertime and
the clock grinds on three instead of
four. Oh, wow. Because it's very harsh
in the winter, you know. Um, all right.
So, I'm going to go ahead and stop the
uh the recording, but thanks everybody.
We'll see you next time on Nights of
Last Call.
