Hey everyone, welcome to the nights of
last call. My name is Derek Melinda.
What you're about to watch is a recent
clip from a Daggerheart live stream
where we gave advice to firsttime GMs
who may need a little help with running
Daggerheart. Enjoy. Topic the first is
understanding what Daggerheart isn't,
right? What is Daggerheart not? And this
really came up to me during the uh tag
during the uh Draw Steel streams where
Draw Steel did a really great job of
highlighting what this game is not about
and even gave suggestions about going
and doing playing other games if you
wanted to uh engage in those sort of
activities. Now, like all game systems,
Dagger Heart can be bent or broken uh in
certain places, but ultimately, you
know, there is a core ethos to the game,
and the further and further you go
astray from that, the more and more
difficulty that difficulty you're going
to encounter. So, I really want to sort
of focus on what Daggerheart is not and
understand why you may not want to play
Daggerheart or may or why Dagger Hart
may not be right for you. What is
Daggerahart not? So Daggerart is not
just D and D with some narrative tokens.
Okay, I fundamentally believe that games
like Dungeons and Dragons and games like
Pathfinder 2 and to a certain extent,
you know, even games like Draw Steel are
fundamentally based around this idea of
campaign as a competition. Now, I may
know it may not seem that way and not
everybody uses the mechanics for that,
but the game itself is built around this
idea of the dungeon master or the game
master setting a series of challenges
that are sort of codified and balanced
within the context of the system. The
players then go and try to defeat those
challenges so that they can overcome
their goals uh or sorry, so they can
achieve their goals. So that fundamental
construct places the game master and the
dungeon master sort of in a role of my
job here is to provide a challenge to
make this a difficult process. Now the
games have done a lot of lifting over
the years to try to make it so that the
players feel like they're challenged but
they're not actually being challenged.
But I'm going to go out here and say
that Daggerheart is not that. It is
built fundamentally for narrative and
emotional storytelling. The duality dice
system is first and foremost designed to
guide your characters through character
arcs. The whole game is based around
this idea of not
will we achieve our victories but how.
Uh so yeah, so Daggerheart is not
uh it's not designed for that. It's not
about tactical precision. It is not
about grid-based combat. It is not about
hard balance. And while I'm not going to
tell you to completely ignore the rules
of the game, I think or I find that even
some of the fiddliness like with the
range ruler, you know, I see a lot of
people on Reddit, well-intentioned,
they're making these range rulers, you
know, very close, close, far. I I think
those are fine. I think using miniatures
is fine. I may I'm probably going to use
miniatures myself,
but I think that that can
distract you from what the focus and the
emphasis is on. And I want people to
realize that this is not about creating
a tactically rich, rewarding, uh, you
know, challengebased experience. I've
seen a lot of people on Reddit complain
about, um, you know, my guardian uh,
used their, you know, their class
feature and they became unstoppable.
There was no way for me to challenge
them. Yes. Uh, you know, think about
your average D and D game in Pathfinder
2 game. How often do your players lose?
The answer is very rarely. And that is
supposed to be a game that is
challengebased. Daggerheart is not that
game. Those aren't the stakes that we
are going up against. If you want a game
that's really going to push your players
to sort of minmax car op, you know, have
to really rack their brains and think
hard, this is probably not the best game
for it. Now, Dagger Hart is a great game
because it it gives us these fun little
tools and these fun little toys and fun
little levers that we can play with, but
it is not about that kind of precision.
The same thing is about initiative order
and the lack thereof. This isn't
necessarily a game that is about
complete and total fairness and balance
in every single situation and in every
single encounter. I've talked before
that there may be a combat where one
particular character has a lot more at
stake
than the other characters. You can bet
your ass that that character is going to
get more spotlight time from me as the
game master than they would maybe in
another fight or another encounter
because this is about them. So, you
can't think of it in terms of initiative
order. You need to think in terms of the
lens of a director. You need to think
about it in terms of a storyteller. This
is a game about bringing these narrative
arcs to life, but instead of it being
pre-written, we are
we are uh we're figuring it out and
we're playing it together and we're
we're discovering it together. So if
if Dungeons and Dragons and Pathfinder 2
at their fundamental
base are a game that is a question of
about there are great problems, terrible
evils in the world. And the question
posed by the game is will the characters
be able to succeed? Right? uh can our
characters stop the great evil?
Now that is that is that is technically
the premise that is assumed right that
we go into that game the players
believing that if they don't play right
or if they don't play well enough right
that they can lose and that the game the
game master will win right and that's
what I mean by campaign is competition
now we all know that again these games
are fairly tightly balanced especially
nowadays modern games so that that
actually doesn't really happen that
often and then even in situations where
it might happen we have a lot of stories
on Reddit of people and YouTube of
people saying, "Well, that's why I
fudge, right? Because I don't want my
players to lose. I want my players to
win." So, the game itself is built
around this fundamental premise of can
the players win? Will the players win?
If the players win,
I believe that Dagger Heart isn't that
game. It's not a question of winning or
losing. It's more of a question of
how will the characters how will this
experience change the characters? Maybe
the fact that the characters are going
to win is a given. The the system is I
mean look right off the bat the
characters can't die. They can always
avoid death. If nothing else should
convince you that this game isn't about
winning or losing. It should be that
characters if they, you know, get taken
out and killed, they can go, "Yeah, I'll
avoid death. I'm going to choose to
avoid death." Um, hell, as a GM, you
could pour all of your efforts into
trying to kill a character and then they
might go, you know what, I'm going to
risk it all. And they roll a 10 on the
hope and a two on the fear and suddenly
like they're back in the fight with max
hit points and and no, you know, with
all their hit points and all their
stress cleared. So clearly balance and
the question of can the players overcome
this challenge is irrelevant. What's
really at stake here is how will the
characters change? What sacrifices are
they willing to make in order to achieve
their goals? How will you challenge
their beliefs? Can they mold can they
maintain and and keep up with their
beliefs despite the challenges and the
adversities being thrown before them?
What what prices will they pay in order
to achieve their goals? What compromises
are they willing to make? And we learn
about those characters and we discover
the story of those characters together.
It's not pre-written. We discover it
together. The dice help guide that
story. So, it is essentially
a a storytelling game in that kind of
weird wonky narrative sense. Um, it
still uses these mechanical concepts
like hit points and armor class and your
character can still quote unquote die by
going to zero hit points, but because of
the mechanics like fear and because of
the mechanics like avoid death, those
consequences are very much mitigated in
a way that our traditional D20 fantasies
don't. So really thinking about how can
I make the fight harder? You might put
all this effort into making the fight
harder. You succeed, I guess, in wiping
out the characters and then they might
all choose to avoid death. And so what
was really the point of that? It sounds
like you were just taking control of the
of the situation and control of the
narrative. You need to be more freeing
and more open to experiences than that.
There isn't all of the systems, the
mechanics, the resources, the character
choices, they are framed through drama
and fiction, not math and not balance.
Um, you know, it's it it values this
idea of the fiction. When when we refer
to the fiction, we refer to the the
world in which our characters are
inhabiting. But there's also another
element. See, if we were playing a very
fully simulationist game, we would be
worried about the fiction.
And you might say, "Oh, wait, wait,
fiction. Isn't that have to do with like
narrative and storytelling and arcs?"
No, no, no. When PBTA style and PBTA
adjacent games talk about the fiction,
what they mean is what is the world in
which our characters are inhabiting? How
does it work? If I light a bridge on
fire, then the bridge should probably
burn down unless someone puts it out.
And when the players come back there a
couple weeks later, maybe the bridge is
still destroyed or maybe the town has
started a new project to rebuild the
bridge and they're very mad at the
players because they wantingly destroyed
the bridge in their fight and they were
throwing fireballs around when they
shouldn't have been or something like to
that nature, right? The world has this
sort of internal consistency. So that's
the fiction and believe it or not that
is really important to simulation style
games to verimilitude, right? To the
suspension of disbelief. Dagger Hurt has
that. It calls itself a fiction first
game and you should respect that. But
that term is a little bit misleading
because Dagger Hart has another pillar
and the other pillar is narrativism.
Dagger Hart wants you to make decisions
that not only respect the fiction but
fill the characters lives with
excitement and adventure and danger. You
want to make sure that things don't
like, you know, literally seem like
they're doo machina and, you know,
things are dropping out of the skies
just in order to, you know, uh, uh,
ratchet up the tension and ratchet up
the stress. But make no mistake, as a
game master, your job is to create high
drama. Your job is to create high
stakes. As a player, your job is to
embrace that. Your job isn't to try to
make the situation automatic and easy.
You want to create conflicted
characters, tense moments, dramatic
moments, and you should be leaning into
that, not trying to avoid that, and
certainly not trying to optimize your
way out of it. And we'll get into some
of these in some of the the later tips
and hint uh hints, but I think
fundamentally reframing this is a way of
contextualizing it. I think a lot of
players and a lot of GMs think about
RPGs as winning. You know, am I winning
or am I losing? You know, some players
think my job is to win. Some GMs think
their job is to win. I guess that's
pretty bad. Uh but most GMs think it's
their job to lose.
And I don't you shouldn't be thinking in
terms of winning or losing or planning
tightly and trying to keep things in a
specific. You should just react. What is
happening? What is going on? What is the
logical step that follows? Make the move
that follows. That's a old I don't know
if it's in Daggerart, but it's in PBTA.
uh you know make the move that follows
and do it with a mindset of respecting
the reality that you guys are the shared
reality that you're creating but also do
it with a mind towards
creating excitement, adventure, magic,
drama, tension, um emotional investment.
uh you know make it funny, make it
endearing, make it uh uh revolting, but
create these sort of you know moments
that your players can react to. You
might not be able to control how your
players react, but you can at least try
to create situations that will give them
something to really ponder about. And so
ultimately I really want to highlight
that that Daggerheart is not even though
you might be playing your D and D game
and you're trying to lean into that
style of play realize that the system at
its forefront is a game in my opinion
about winning and losing. They may have
changed the math a lot since 1974 and
they've really tried to create a lot of
we'll call them safety nets, right? Uh
deathsaving throws and three deaths
saving you die but no n you're not dead.
You have to fail three deaths saving
throws, right? um you know they they've
added all these layers on top of the
game to try to keep it so that you you
know it's harder to die but the fact of
the matter is you can and players have
really become very triggered to that and
a lot of times a TPK or something to
that nature um can end a campaign and it
is very I respect the hell out of GMs
who really struggle with this issue
because they feel like their job is to
push the players to challenge the
players especially in the combat that
mode of their game, but they also know
in the back of their mind or maybe even
at the forefront that if I do succeed at
killing these players, I may destroy my
game with it. That's a very strong
that's a very tough tight rope to walk.
And it's a reason why I think so many
GMs embrace fudging.
So, the last thing I'm going to say on
this topic is this is a game where you
absolutely have no reason to fudge. This
is not that game. This is a game where
you can do all of your fudging
out in front of the screen and and
really just let people see what's going
on. And and we'll talk about this when
we get into the topic about, you know,
learning to love failure, but when your
players realize that it's not about
winning and losing, and it's going to
take time. It's going to take time but
slowly but surely you need to rebuild
that trust so that the players can feel
uh that they are in a place where they
can express themselves and it's not
about feeling like they need to perform
at a certain level or the entire
campaign may end and maybe it's their
fault because they chose the wrong spell
or they didn't take a feat that they
were supposed to take. So, Daggerheart
is really about exploring that space and
being more interested in storytelling
than it is winning.
So, that's what I have to say about
understanding what Daggerart isn't. And
for, you know, for context on that,
Daggerart goes into great great detail
about what it is, but I really want to
highlight what it's not. And draw steel
did a great job of this and I really
wanted to highlight that as
