Hey everyone, welcome to the nights of
last call. My name is Derek Melinda.
What you're about to watch is a recent
clip from a Daggerheart live stream
where we gave advice to firsttime GMs
who may need a little help with running
Daggerheart. Enjoy. So our next topic is
learn and teach your players to love
fear and failure. This is a situation
where we have been trained from very
simulationist concepts to want to avoid
fail failure at all costs. And quick
little mini tangent here. Of course we
have been. And a lot of times people
think that players minmax because they
don't want to die or because you know
they never want to fail. I think that's
actually not true. I think players don't
want to let their other PCs their other
players down.
In most D&D games, when you fail a role,
it means you are that much closer to
death. It means that you are that much
closer to uh, you know, losing. It means
that you have let the players go, you
know, you have let the players down.
It also means that if you're playing in
a combat game, if you miss, in most
versions of D and D and most versions of
Pathfinder, uh when you miss, you do you
don't you do zero damage. Nothing
happens. So, there's a very strong
incentive here to want to hit because of
course you want something to happen.
So, here is my
radical advice to you.
When you fail in this game, it means
that your character did not achieve the
success that they wanted
and that per the rules of the game, the
GM can now make a move. And one could
argue that they can make a hard move.
What I tell you is that sometimes
even when the players fail,
that doesn't necessarily mean that you
should just immediately make a GM move
like spotlight an adversary that then
gets them attacked.
Because what they are going to learn
then is that whenever I make an attack,
if I roll low, I'm going to not only
miss and do no damage,
but then the GM gets to immediately
attack me. And so there's a strong
chance here that the players will
actually feel like failure is worse in
Daggerheart than it was in Dn D. Because
in Dn D, they'll say, "Well, in D and D,
when I miss, I didn't do anything. and
then the it was the next person's turn.
That's better than I missed and then the
GM got to attack me.
Now granted, the monsters don't get an
initiative order, so they don't go,
right, normally. So obviously that's not
exactly true because otherwise the
monsters would never go. So there's that
element to be to be put there. But part
of the this the the key to teaching your
players to learn to love fear and
failure is quite simple. When your
players fail or if they roll with fear,
you make a move. That move does not
always have to be the adversary attacks.
Sometimes the move could be something
like this. You and I are playing. You
describe your character going in to take
out a group of minions.
you swing your sword or whatever, you
fail. So, you don't hit and you fail
with fear. I get to make a move and I
get a fear point. My move might be like
the minions swarm around you and begin
hacking and slashing their way through
you. If you want,
mark two stress and you can kill them
all.
That was my move. I got to make whatever
move I wanted to make as a GM. And my
move was to offer that player an
opportunity with a cost.
Why? Because they failed. What they
wanted to do was kill the minions with
no cost. They wanted to kill the
minions, I'm sure, with hope. Mark a
hope point, succeed.
The GM doesn't get to go. That didn't
happen. But you know what? These are
minions. That character, that's a badass
warrior. I don't want him to miss. I
don't want him to do nothing. I want
there to be consequences for his
failure. I want to at this point in the
scene, I want to give him something to
do with. Learn to use failure to
highlight how awesome your players are.
Don't always just go to the radically
hard extreme. The biggest mistake I have
seen with people in this game is
especially in combat is whenever the
players fail or whenever the players
roll with fear or whenever the GM spends
a fear token is
and a monster attacks and a monster
attacks and a monster's attack and a
monster's attack. I think that's one of
the more boring things that you can do.
So ultimately, I think what you should
do is use failure as a way to reframe
the character success. Now look, that
doesn't mean that sometimes goes
wrong and goes bad. But as the
director, as the game master, you need
to feel that out. And for all of you,
those who are like, "How do I know?" You
you got to learn. You got to feel your
vibe. I know that sounds terrible, but
you just got to do it a lot. Look into
your players eyes. It's one of the
reasons why I say um
it's hard for me to run games not in
person. It's why it's definitely
impossible for me to run a game if I
don't have cameras up. I read body
language. It's big part of how I game
master. So, especially with these type
of games. So, fear or failure doesn't
mean that the character was wrong to
act. It simply means that the stakes are
real and we should be leaning into that.
Failure should mean interesting
consequences. It should not feel like a
punishment sometimes. Sometimes a
failure with fear
against,
you know, let's let's say it's a massive
dragon, right? And your hero kind of
comes up maybe with a little bit of
swagger. Again, we still want our heroes
to to feel like they're the protagonist,
right? That they're the the heroes of
the day. But they roll a fear with the
failure. That's one of those like again
I always think back to movies, you know,
it's like when when Thor, you know,
swings his uh that big hammer at the
Hulk and the Hulk just catches it and
then like moves the hammer out of the
way to look at him and then like Thor
goes, "I'm sorry." And then the Hulk
just smashes him in the face, right? And
just, you know, he goes sailing across
the thing. Sometimes the player runs in
and against a, you know, a dragon and
rolls failure with fear and you just
describe the dragon as just like
stopping their attack cold, crushing
them into the ground and then throwing
their body and they're like tumble
weeding across the battlefield, skidding
to a halt as their armor, you know,
buckles and breaks against a nearby
boulder, right? That is that that scene
is still satisfying because something
cool happened. And one of the hardest
things that you can master as a game
master is making the players feel cool
in defeat. Think about some of your
favorite movies. Think about some of
your favorite animes. Sometimes one of
your favorite things is seeing your
awesome favorite hero character uh take
a beating and get back up. It's seeing
them kind of get destroyed a little bit
because it means that when they come all
the way back, it feels way more
satisfying, right? I very rarely in any
of the movies that we watch or animes or
books do the heroes just like win
constantly without never failing, right?
They fail a lot actually, like all the
time a lot. And the key difference is we
just don't make them look like little
So if you are treating the fear as a
complication, a twist, a shift, right?
Encourage players emotional actions too.
Put the ask them a question. I know it
seems crazy in the middle of a
spotlight, right? Um if the player fails
a role
and one of the things that you can do as
a move in the in the book, I actually
don't have the PDF open. What a what a
mistake that is. Um,
one of the
one of the GM moves that they recommend
in Daggerheart is basically to, you
know, ask ask the player how they feel
about it. Um, and you might do that even
in combat. Obviously, you have to sort
of feel out the the pacing of the moment
and and the the tension in the scene.
But think about some of those your
favorite combats, your favorite action
scenes from movies. Sometimes there's
these little moments where we get to see
how a character is responding to their
failure and that teaches us about that
character and we make it more of a
character moment than a you're losing
the game, you're losing the fire or
losing the fight moment. Right?
So again, um, focusing on the
potentially narrative effects of fear
and failure, but also don't be afraid to
making soft moves and maybe even
allowing the player success
even on a failure,
but have it cost something. And maybe
ask them, do they want to pay that cost
or will they pay that cost? And there's
no right or wrong answer. You could ask
them to do whatever you want, you know,
um, and they could say yes and they
could say no, but at least giving them
everything that you, you know, could
want. Now, Black Lodge Gaming,
I I'm going to go out on a limb here,
uh, and say you should probably never
play Daggerheart, uh, or maybe, I don't
know, any narrativist or, uh, Powered by
the Apocalypse game, um, because it does
not seem like this is, you know, your
your cup of tea. Um but uh you won't.
All right, fair enough. You know what? I
really respect that. Um because again,
in real life, right, we always say you
learn from your mistakes, but that
doesn't mean we're we're encouraged to
to fail, right? But in these type of
games, because we're trying to reflect
the sort of pacing and and structures of
our favorite stories, failure is really
really important.
Um all right, fair enough. you enjoy the
discussion. Uh, Lord Kyler says, "If a
player doesn't take you up on the offer,
too stressed to kill the minions. Is
that still considered resolved? They
just miss and move on. Or do you move to
something else?" I consider it resolved
and I move on, Lord Kyler. You know, I
might make a really soft move. Um, I I
might I might cut this. I might I might
cut over unless I spend a fear token. I
might cut over to Kister and I might
say, um, okay, Lord Kyler is still
surrounded by minions. They're they're
they're fighting tooth and nail. Neither
side seems to be gaining the advantage.
Kester, the black dragon just hurled
Alia across the battlefield.
Kister, what do you do? I'm always
re-updating the fiction with my players
and then asking them what do they do?
But as far as I'm concerned that that
you missed, I made a move which was give
you an offer. You didn't take me up on
the offer. The move is over. I could
spend a fear token if I want to, I don't
know, activate the dragon again or or do
something else with a different monster
or do something of that nature. Uh, but
as far as I'm concerned, that's my move.
Why would I waste my move that way? I
don't know. Why would you waste your
move spotlighting your adversary? What
are you going to do? Kill all the party
members? You can't. Okay, there's no
point to trying to win. You can't win.
There's no losing and there's no
winning. The only thing we could do is
create awesome, cool, badass moments. It
doesn't matter. But that is very
different from the way that we're learn.
We're used to thinking in terms of
action efficiency and action economy and
how can I get the most DPS out of my
monsters so that my players feel
terrified.
It's not what this game is about. Um, so
ultimately,
uh, remember that outside of failure,
players might have actually really high
bonuses between helping and trait
bonuses, but 47%
or something of the roles are going to
be with fear regardless of whether the
players succeed or not. So, you know,
you need to you need to sort of learn to
embrace fear and failure. And one of the
ways that you can do that is by not
making it so horrible and not making it
so punishing and turning fear into more
of a uh you know it's like a backhanded
compliment. It's like okay that was nice
but you you kind of took a dig at me and
and in that respect uh I think players
can start to really you know engage with
that a little bit more. Um and and
giving them choices. Players always feel
empowered by choices. Like if I told the
players in that instance before where
Lur Kyler was surrounded by the minions
misses and I say um you know you start
to do battle with it but you can't gain
the upper edge. Do you push yourself to
destroy them or do you hold back and and
and conserve and keep battling with
them? Do you want to spend two stress to
kill them you know to kill them or not?
I'm giving them a choice. I could have
said Lord Kyler mark two stress and the
minions are dead. That is a valid
option. I could do that as a GM move,
but I'd rather give Lord Kyler the
choice because if I give them the
choice, they will feel empowered. And a
big part of PBTA and big part of my
philosophy is giving players agency and
making them feel empowered to make
choices. And that is an example of one.
So, I'm a big fan of of making them of
making them. Now, sometimes the choice
may be pointless. Um, I remember, you
know, um,
Smen, uh, if they, now if for whatever
reason that came up and they said, uh, I
only have one stress left. I might say,
that's fine. It'll make you vulnerable
and I think that's enough of a price. Or
I might say, fine, Mark a stress and a
hit point. And, you know, they say,
"Well, can I mark an armor instead?" And
I might go, "Of course." By the way,
everything we're just doing there is GM
moves and spotlights going back and
forth. Oh, we're Oh, no. We're not out
of time yet. We're not out of time yet.
Uh, so again,
lean into it, make it cool. If you make
fear and failure shitty for your
players, then they are going to fear it.
Um, and they are going to dislike it,
and they're going to dislike it probably
even more than they disliked it in D and
D. So instead, you need to look for ways
to make those fear and failure moves
soft, but also sometimes hit them with a
hammer. But oftentimes, I like to kind
of put that back into, you know, to
their hands. Uh, in one of our Patreon
bonus videos, we played a Dungeon World
game long time ago. Bob got kicked off a
cliff. And I said, "Bob, you begin
tumbling to your death." I go, "Uh," and
I go, "What do you do?" And he goes,
"Uh, I'm going to re He goes, he looks
at his equipment. He goes, "I'm going to
grab my crowbar from my backpack and use
it to grab onto the edge of the cliff."
And I said, "Awesome. Cool. You do that.
But you either drop your weapon or your
backpack. Pick." Now he gets to make a
choice. It's a shitty choice, but
But um it's uh it's still a choice that
he gets to make. And believe it or not,
like if you give people a choice, it's
like the idea of the matrix, right? If
you give people a choice, even in an
unconscious level, they are much more
likely to accept your uh fake reality
that you've kept them in. So all right.
So that that's about that's about fear
and failure and about embracing it. And
again, the key is to be softer with your
moves, to give players choices, and to
make sure that they still feel cool and
they look cool while they are missing.
If you just say, "You slip on a banana
peel and you miss, and then the enemy
ground pounds you and does critical
damage. I'm going to activate him again.
He does critical damage." The players
are going to quickly figure out that
fear that failing and fear sucks and
they should they would be afraid and
avoid rolling dice at all costs.
