Hey everyone, it's Derek from Nights of
Last Call. So, a few minutes ago, we
received notification that Critical Role
Season 4, campaign 4 will be played
using Dungeons and Dragons fifth
edition.
So, I don't actually care about this
because I don't really watch Critical
Role. However, I think that this is a
massive blow to the Daggerheart
community. I think it shows that
well, number one, we've sort of been
stuck in our own Kool-Aid.
We've sort of been uh caught in an echo
chamber. The fact of the matter is
Professor Dungeon Master's video the
other day highlighted this point.
Dungeons and Dragons is still by far and
away the single largest entity, bigger
than the number two, number three,
number four, all that stuff combined.
So, a brand new game like Dagger Hart
just does not have the sort of market
penetration that the folks at Critical
Role probably felt that they needed for
financial viability for their campaign.
But that being said, I think that this
is an extremely disappointing and
strange move to release a new game under
the opus of a system that is designed
for the kind of play style that Critical
Role is famous for. to bring on to ex Dn
D leads in Chris Perkins and Jeremy
Crawford to hype up your game to this
level and then not to switch away from
Dungeons and Dragons to do your main
campaign seems baffling to me. And I
think it's going to hurt the game's
long-term viability. If for no other
reason, then I think some people will
view it as a lack of faith or a lack of
confidence or a lack of ability in the
game system of Daggerheart itself.
Now, I don't get paid by Darington
Press. I don't get paid by any of these
game companies. I like the games I like.
This isn't going to stop me from
enjoying Daggerheart. It's not going to
stop me from creating content for
Daggerheart, including an actual play.
Hey, maybe it'll do well now. But what
it does do is confuse me. And I just
don't understand their motivation other
than the fact that they felt like
perhaps
Dungeons and Dragons was a bigger draw
to their show than the Critical Role
cast and crew themselves. Additionally,
we don't know the timing of these
decisions. maybe critical role. You
know, campaign 4 was set in stone as D
and D a long time ago before they saw
how successful Dagger Hart has been
selling out now their third print third
printing in a row. Or perhaps there's
some sort of secret deal and Wizards of
the Coast pays Critical Role some sort
of money to keep the game system in D
and D. I doubt that, but you never know
what's going on behind the scenes.
Lastly, maybe the Critical Role folks
felt like there was still such a
learning curve after their Age of Umbra
campaign that maybe they decided they
didn't want to switch. And of course,
perhaps the most u big change up is that
with Brennan Lee Mulligan stepping into
Dungeon Master, they didn't feel like it
would be fair to him or a requirement
for him to have to learn a new system
while being thrust into this kind of big
spotlight. Not that he's not used to
major spotlight changes uh or big
spotlights. However,
Brenley Mulligan is also known for
basically saying, "I don't really use
the rules anyways except for combat."
So, I don't know how much of a big
switch that would have been for him
regardless. So, maybe they felt like
switching to a new GM and switching to a
new system was too much change all at
once. In which case, I would say maybe
you should have made the switch to
Daggerheart first.
Again, I know a lot of people, myself
included, said this game would be kind
of DOA if Critical Role didn't make it
their main campaign. And while they are
doing a second Age of Umbra, micro
campaign or mini campaign or whatever
you want to call it, the fact is this is
going to hurt the game from a, you know,
playability standpoint. It's fine,
right? The game is still incredibly
solid, welldesigned, and a lot of fun.
But one of the the the ways that a game
survives is by having that sort of
market penetration, the ability to find
players online, people who want to play
your game. And as someone who's played
many games that aren't exactly at the
top of the popularity list, I could tell
you that it could be difficult to find
players. And when it's difficult to find
players, you lose motivation to want to
run games. Then the whole ecosystem and
community starts to fall apart. and the
before you know it, the game is sort of
dead. So, I don't think Daggerheart is
dead. But this is a massive blow, I
think, to the game's long-term
prospects, and I never thought for a
moment that it was going to replace
Dungeons and Dragons. I don't know that
anything will ever in our lifetime.
However, I did seriously think that this
game could have been a top three or top
four contender. I could have seen
Daggerheart battling with Pathfinder 2
for popularity at tables, say at Gen Con
or Origins or at your local gaming store
in the next year or two when the game
has only been out for what, 3 months.
But this is going to show a lot of
people that the game is still niche.
It's going to show them that critical
role themselves don't have uh I'll call
it confidence or faith in the ability of
their new system to carry uh their major
flagship product and that is really
really really unfortunate. Now of course
this is Critical Role making a decision
for Critical Role. This has nothing to
do with Darington Press. I'm sure the
folks at Darington Press which you know
are owned by many of the folks at
Critical Role uh you know they're going
to keep making the games and they're
going to keep doing what they're doing.
this was a critical role decision and I
don't pretend to know critical role
decisions. However, I can say for me
personally that if I started my own game
company and I created a high epic
cinematic fantasy game focused on
narrative storytelling, then when I
started my next actual play, one of the
largest sources of TTRPG entertainment,
arguably one of the things that has
brought the most people into the hobby,
which is a high fantasy, epic cinematic
narrative fantasy game, I would probably
choose to use my game.
Not a game that number one I think is
personally a dungeon crawler combat
system. I love D and D, but that's what
it is. It doesn't have any sort of
components or elements for narrative
beats or cinematic moments. Two has been
sort of mired in what I'll call
community vitrial. Now, I understand
that we are a narrow group here on
YouTube and Reddit and and the
convention scene and not that doesn't
represent everybody, but the fact of the
matter is people have been fairly soured
on Wizards of the Coast, and I can't
help but wonder if this was a bad
business decision from the folks at
Critical Role. Regardless,
it sucks and I do think this is going to
take some wind out of the sales of
Daggerheart, but the game is great. The
folks at Darington Press are amazing.
I'm going to keep hyping this game up.
You're going to keep hyping this game
up. Or at least you should if you like
it. So, Daggerheart may be dead. Long
live Daggerheart. So, let's keep uh
let's keep uh let's keep our chins up.
Let's keep looking towards the future.
There's a lot of great games out there.
I hope this one isn't dead before it had
its chance to shine. So, thank you so
much and we'll see you next time on
Nights of Last Call. Bye, everybody.
