Hey everyone, welcome to the nights of
last call. My name is Derek Melinda.
What you're about to watch is a recent
clip from a Daggerheart live stream
where we gave advice to firsttime GMs
who may need a little help with running
Daggerheart. Enjoy. There's a lot of
there's a couple of things I want to
talk about from a GMing perspective. And
the second topic I want to talk cover is
working with the spotlight and what I
call dynamic spotlight management. This
is where I am going to break with the
Daggerheart folks a little bit. And I
believe that you are going to be better
served.
Your game is going to be better served.
And I think your players, especially new
players, are going to be better served
if you use the following guidelines
for managing the spotlight. So the first
thing to realize is the spotlight is not
really the same thing as a turn.
You know, we think of the turn in D and
D as being very, very discreet, okay?
Which is, you know, my turn starts, my
turn ends, and nothing in between.
I don't think of the spotlight in that
way. I think of the spotlight as more of
who is controlling the narrative at this
moment. Um, it's very like a I've got
the conch, right? Uh if you've if you've
ever read Lord of the Flies, you are
sort of controlling the action and that
can change.
The camera is on you. It's your time to
make a quippy oneliner. It's your time
to do some sort of dramatic cool Avenger
style move, but ultimately that camera
is going to shift. Now,
in the normal Dagger Heart game, the way
that the spotlight rules work is very
written very discreetly, and I think
some people have taken this too
literally
where the players have the spotlight.
They pass it between them until somebody
rolls with fear or fails a roll or the
GM spends a fear. And I've seen a lot of
people write it just like that. I've
seen that in Reddit. I've seen that in
examples even on the internet, even on
YouTube, I should say. For starters,
that is patently not the case. The real
answer is that the GM can and should uh
take the spotlight whenever they want,
but they could take the spotlight and
they will take the spotlight not only
when they spend a fear or when the
players roll with fear or when the
players fail a roll, but also whenever
the players are looking to you to see
what happens. whenever the players give
you a golden opportunity or whenever
there are natural consequences that
would follow from the player's actions.
Now, I know that might seem weird to
consider these things GM moves. The term
GM move is a it's an old PBTA framework,
but really what it means is the GM is
telling you what's happening and what is
going on.
My core cons, my core belief is that as
the director of this story, the GM can
do a lot better of a job of sending the
spotlight to where it needs to be. And
what that means is a couple of things.
Number one, during combat or during
moments of extreme tension, I like
to
control the spotlight. I view giving the
players the opportunity to sort of
decide amongst themselves
who should do what is almost more of
like a an indication that we aren't in a
very tense situation that we have a lot
of time. You could think of it as in
character and out of character. We have
time to sort of discuss our options and
figure out what the best move is and all
these other factors. Okay. I don't think
that moments of combat or, you know,
tension, a chase are those times. So, as
a GM, what I like to do is I control the
spotlight. So, for example, after a uh
player, whether it's me or another
player, PC, uh finishes a move or does
something, you know, similarly, I'm
thinking about it in terms of a
director, and I might cut to Aaron and I
might say, you know, all right, Aaron,
you finish casting the fireball and it
rips through the ranks of the minions.
Ker, what are you doing? cuz Aaron
rolled with hope and I want to keep the,
you know, thing the sort of the story
moving. And I go, Kister, the fireball
is streaking towards through the air
about to rip apart the minions. What are
you doing? And Kristor's like, oh, okay.
I I I need to go. Instead of the action
stopping and the player's going, uh, who
should go next? Who should keep going?
Uh, do you want to go? No. Do you want
to Who wants to go? Do you want to go?
Do you do you want to go? Well, I I just
went, but I would go again. And I would
also go again. And I would also go
again. I see a lot of people having all
these debates about it and then the game
says things like, "Oh, maybe you should
use an action card tracker and track how
many actions people have taken or just
do none of that and just control the
spotlight as the GM."
Now, you can keep a mind towards
fairness. If you really need help, you
can maybe make little check marks about
how many times a given player has taken
an action, but I don't even necessarily
like doing that. Man, there's a lot to
talk about talk talk about in this this
15-minute segment because one of the
things that I measure, I don't measure
turns. I don't measure actions. I
measure impact,
right? I measure impact. You know, in
complete fairness, I mean, this isn't
really true, but let's say that you had
a rogue character and you give them the
spotlight and they take an action and,
you know, they miss and nothing happens,
right? Or something like that. And then
you give them another action and they
miss and nothing happens. and you give
them another action and they miss and
nothing happens. So they've taken three
turns and they've done nothing. And then
meanwhile, you've spotlighted the wizard
three times and they have casted
fireball three times and they have
ripped through a group of minions. They
blew up a bunch of uh standard monsters
that were standing too close to each
other and they wiped out an a siege
engine that was being brought to bear
during the fire. And you're like, "Okay,
so they've each taken three actions.
They've each taken three moves,
but did they have equal weight? And the
answer is no. So, we need to divorce
ourselves from that D&D uh mentality. Dn
D mentality is very um it's almost it's
very like it's almost very
conservativism, right? Like it's like,
hey, I gave everybody an equal chance.
You had three turns. You had three
turns. Not my fault that you didn't take
advantage of those three turns and that
you missed a lot. Maybe you should make
a better character and get good, son.
that mentality
very bad. So this is this is not about
giving the players opportunities. It's
about giving the players actual impact.
So for me as a GM, this is why just
keeping check marks I don't think is a
very accurate way to do this. I'm paying
attention and I want to see how much
satisfaction and engagement that
particular player has.
If I'm watching the table and I see that
somebody is their attention is starting
to flag, maybe they're starting to look
a little bored, boom, I might give them
the spotlight right away. I was going to
take a bunch of fear moves. Instead, I
throw the spotlight back to them and I
ask them what they're doing. If somebody
has an unbelievable turn and they have a
huge impact on the the battlefield and
there's another player who hasn't really
done a lot, I'm going to go to that
player. I don't care how many moves
they've taken, right? I don't care that
the last time I gave them the spotlight,
they tried to move across the the
battle. You know, their action was I
move across the the the battlefield.
Yeah, you didn't really do anything.
Cool. You succeeded. You succeeded with
hope, but I'm going to respot that
player. I'm going to keep the I want to
keep the camera on them. Okay?
You know, because they didn't do
anything. Imagine in a movie if you just
sh you know, the camera pans over to a
character and you're like, and then it,
you know, it's an exciting action scene
and it pans over to a character and they
don't really do anything and then it
cuts back and you're like, wait, what
was the point of that scene? you know,
so I think it's really important to
realize that you need to sort of manage
the spotlight and take advantage of that
and it makes it feel much more punchy,
you know, and yes, you are entrusting
the GM to have control. Now, as I've
said before, you can use this as a
lever. Let's say the the enemies are on
their back foot, maybe they're starting
to fall back, and the players, you can
even think of it in the fiction, right?
the players are kind of they they almost
have a moment to take a breather, you
know, they kind of like Avengers
assembled, you know, they kind of have
landed, you know, on the hill, my, you
know, to me, my X-Men, and they actually
have a brief moment to sort of do like
that scene in the first Avengers movie
where they're in the middle of a combat,
but they kind of regroup and, you know,
Captain America calls out the things,
you know, you know, Hawkeye call out
strays, Stark blasted or turned to ash,
Hulk smash, right? In that world, the
the adventures have sort of gained the
initiative. they've gained the momentum
and now as a GM I might turn to the
player group and kind of give them in
game and out of game a moment to sort of
strategize and table talk and it'll feel
like okay we have a breather here we
have a moment to discuss it's not as
hectic it's not as panicked we can
actually kind of think about our
strategy a little bit okay and then and
then we can press into it but if you run
uh you know we have uh IA chat who says
if run spotlight by committee. I promise
you combat is going to slow down and
it's going to be a horrible, terrible
grind. It's one of the reasons I don't
like some of some of the popcorn
initiative systems where it's like, oh,
the players will decide who goes next.
That's great in theory, but it tends to
lead to a lot of, you know, consensus.
Um, and uh, you know, so as a result of
that, I think that's really important.
But the other thing that's really
important is as a GM
when you're managing that spotlight,
realize that just because it's a just
because it's a player's turn doesn't
mean that you can't interrupt them and
ask another player what they're doing.
So another thing that I do with my
spotlight management is I kind of do
what I will call uh you know half
activations where I might give the turn
you know give give the spotlight to Alia
and I say you know Alia what are you
doing and Alia says I'm going to move
forward and I'm going to start to cast
I'm going to cast fireball and I'm going
to ripen through those ranks of minions.
Now, normally the spotlight would stay
on her and we would resolve her duality
role and we would see what result it
got. Fear, hope, success, whatever. Then
we would proceed to the next player.
That's the way that standard D and D
terms. But we don't have to think like
that anymore because there's no
initiative order. So now that I've
confirmed what Alia's doing, right? And
we can think of it in the fiction. She's
starting to weave fire magic. It's
starting to gather around her. I can
then whip pan and I can cut to, you
know, Zen bullet and I can say, "Zen,
Alia's beginning to draw fire into
herself to cast a fireball on those
minions. What are you doing while she's
doing that?"
And then Zen Bullet tells me what he's
doing. And then I cut back to Alia and
have her make her roll. And then we see
the result of that. And that informs the
fiction of what happens with what Zen
Bullet's doing. And we can use our
spotlight management not just as a way
to manage initiative, but as a way to
manage the camera and a way to to frame
this story in a way that is is exciting
and and you know, it's going to make the
players feel engaged and active. And if
you don't know if the GM is just going
to point at you suddenly and ask you
what you're doing, you bet your ass
you're going to be engaged because at
any minute you could suddenly be on the
spot and that means you need to pay
attention and that means you need to be
engaged. So, you know, as the spotlight,
sure, it's your turn, but it's more of
like your moment to make an impact. And
as a GM, during very intense scenes
where I want to keep the pacing fast and
furious, where I want to make
uncertainty a part of the attention a
part of the feeling of the scene, I tend
to manage the spotlight. So that doesn't
mean necessarily that the player should
have no impact on it, but it should be
something that they earn in those scenes
rather than uh you know sort of
uh uh you know have to fight for it and
sort of you know advocate on behalf of
the players.
Some player groups, they may be totally
fine and they might say, "Oh, I do this
thing and then oh, you go next and you
go next and you go next." That's fine.
But also realize something. Every time a
player finishes a move, this is the last
thing I'm going to say about dynam
spotlight movement. I promise you, every
time that a player finishes a move, even
if they roll success with hope, even if
they roll a critical success,
per the rules of the game, the spotlight
stays with the players. It doesn't go to
the GM. and then the next player goes,
"That's wrong." I promise you, after a
player completes their action, I promise
you, they are going to look to you to
see what happens because they're going
to want to know, uh, did did the did the
monsters did it die?
Uh, you know, did uh did the bridge I
shot a fireball at blow up? They are
going to look to you to see what
happens. And that means almost by def
definition, every time the players do
anything, even if they succeed with
hope, even if they critically hit,
they're going to look to you, see what
happens, which means you can make a GM
move.
So again, you can make a GM move
whenever you want. But what I'm saying
is the the world in which the spotlight
stays with the players continuously
doesn't exist. Whether you know it or
not, the spotlight is always bouncing
back and forth between you and the
players. So, as a GM, you have that
ability. When the players complete a
move and it's and they look to you, to
see what happens, make a move. You could
technically make whatever move you want.
I recommend making a soft move. We'll
talk about that in a later video, but
ultimately, your job is to update and
reinforce and change the fiction and
then push the spotlight back. So again,
even in a world where you're following
quote unquote the rules, I promise you
the spotlight is bouncing around a lot
more than you think it is. And uh as a
result, the game, especially your
combats, which is an important part of
Daggerheart, it doesn't, you know, it's
very honest about that. Uh will feel way
more dynamic and it's going to feel much
more like an action movie and it's going
to feel a lot more high-paced,
tensionfilled, and dramatic. And in this
game, that is definitely what we want to
accomplish.
