Hey everyone, it's Derek from Nights of
Last Call with some really exciting
brand new news that just dropped a few
minutes ago. Some of my patrons sent the
link over to our uh KLC Discord and I
just thought I would create this video
really quick to share what I think is
some pretty exciting and interesting
news. So, this is a press release from
Darington Press. Darington Press, the
publishers behind Daggerheart, and of
course connected with Critical Role, and
they are announcing that Chris Perkins
and Jeremy Crawford have joined their
team. So, if you're not aware, Chris
Perkins and Jeremy Crawford were both
formerly employees of Wizards of the
Coast. Uh they were the head of design
over at Wizards of the Coast for the
last number of years and recently, about
a month or two ago, announced that they
had left Wizards of the Coast. And we
had talked about this uh on my friend
Steven Glicker's show, Roll for Combat.
And we talked about what might have
driven this. Is it the fact that they
felt like D and D had nothing left to
offer them? Is it that they felt like
they wanted to do some sort of new
creative challenge? Because to be clear,
I have a lot of respect for Chris
Perkins and Jeremy Crawford. I think
they're incredible designers with great
vision. Um they have been stewards of
the game for a very long time that I
love. Uh, and so, you know, when at that
time I didn't really know what their
plan was, but certainly, you know, I I'd
hoped to see where they would go and and
follow along with great interest what
they were doing. Well, it turns out
they're going to Daggerheart, or at the
very least, they're going to Darington
Press. So, I'm going to go ahead and
read this press release here for you.
Welcome Chris Perkins and Jeremy
Crawford to our team. And I mean,
clearly this is not something brand new
because here's them hanging out with the
crew. Exciting news. Our Darington Press
team has grown, adding Chris Perkins as
our creative director and Jeremy
Crawford as game director. We're
thrilled to welcome both Chris and
Jeremy's expertise in game design and
storytelling. Honed through decades of
experience working together on tabletop
games such as Dungeons and Dragons, Star
Wars role playing, Warhammer Fantasy
Roleplay, and Blue Rose. We're enormous
fans of their work and are honored to
welcome them to our team. At Darington
Press, they'll devel developing novel
game concepts as well as expanding upon
the games we've released so far. Here
are some words from our new team
members. Storytelling has always been at
the heart of everything I do, and
joining Darington Press feels a bit like
coming home, said Perkins, creative
director of Darington Press. I've loved
being a part of the extended critical
role family as a regular guest over the
years and I'm beyond excited to help
create new worlds full of adventure.
I've always believed that these great
games invite everyone to the table and
that's exactly what excites me about
joining Darington Press, said Crawford,
game director of Darington Press. This
team is passionate, wildly creative, and
committed to building welcoming,
connected, amazing, storydriven
experiences. I can't wait to expand upon
what Critical Role has already created
to develop some really fun and unique
games. Welcome Chris and Jeremy. To stay
up to date for news for Darington Press
and join our adventure, sign up for our
newsletter, join our Discord.
So, this is big news. I because you know
it's I don't think it's I don't think
it's hyperbole to say that a lot of
Dungeons and Dragons success over the
last 5 to 10 years is because of these
two gentlemen and the work that they put
in. and they have a lot of clout in the
game industry and for them to be joining
not just as independent consultants but
as game director and creative director
the the the head of the development for
coming out of Darington Press is huge.
So, not only does this mean big things,
I think from Darington Press in the
future, but it also means big things for
games like Daggerheart because this
means that Darington Press is trying to
step up. They are trying to be maybe
they're never we we can all accept it's
not going to beat D and D, but they are
trying to be in that that next top two
spots, right? Uh I think this is really
awesome. And one of the concerns I've
had about Dagger Hart is will this game
have the gravitas? Will this game have
the clout to last? We know that Critical
Role has a lot of pull and a lot of
sway, but that's they're not game
developers. They'll be the first to tell
you that. But you've got So, you've got
the Zizzle, right? And now you've got
the stake. These are died in the wool
hardcore professional game developers
who have a resume that puts almost
everyone else to shame. So to bring them
onto your team and put them in charge of
your development says a lot about how
serious that they are taking uh this
this this you know it's not just a money
grab as some people have said.
Additionally you you can see the focus
from both Chris and Jeremy on wanting to
do more narrative based games, wanting
to do more storytelling based games. And
you know, from seeing them over the
years, I do believe that part of the
reason they may have lo left Wizards of
the Coast is because they felt hemmed in
by the rules of Dungeons and Dragons,
the sort of the monolith that they had
built, and that the community there and
the game engine and the desire from a
marketability perspective to create a
more fiction forward, narrative focused
gaming experience just wasn't in the
cards. Either way, I think this is
really super exciting. Uh, if you want
to know more about Daggerheart, we have
a massive playlist which I'll put in the
doobly-doo below. Uh, that covers our
first week's experience with
Daggerheart. I did like 30 hours of live
streams, so you can definitely check
that out. Um, or, you know, take a look
for it on the internet. Uh, there's a
great subreddit that's talking about the
game. Uh, and of course, feel free to
check us out. Nice to last call. Uh, we
uh have a Patreon and we also have our
YouTube channel here. So, click on our
live tab. We don't do many videos. Click
on our live tab and you will see that we
have thousands of hours of live streams
where we talk about all number of games.
Either way, really excited about this.
Um, I can't wait to see how this
develops and we'll see you next time on
Night's Last Call. Bye.
